Okay, David. So, the question, do you
have a favorite Ferrari?
>> That's a tough one. I would never
actually want to get behind the wheel of
it, but I think I got to go with the
F40.
>> Of course.
>> I remember just being like a kid in
elementary school and getting a model of
one and thinking like, "Oh my god, this
is the most incredible machine that
mankind has ever created."
>> Yeah. It's the defining supercar.
>> Yes. Yes. How about you?
>> I actually have two. One is the car from
Charleslair's wedding.
>> It's the 1957 250 Tessterosa.
>> And the car from Ford versus Ferrari.
That 1966 330 P3 is just beautiful. It's
got these curves. It looks like a
spaceship. It's gorgeous.
>> H beauty and power. Story of Ferrari.
>> Yes. All right. Should we do it?
>> Let's do it.
>> Who got the truth?
Is it you? Is it you? Is it you? Who got
the truth now?
Is it you? Is it you? Is it you? Sit me
down. Say it straight. Another story on
the way.
>> Welcome to the spring 2026 season of
Acquired, the podcast about great
companies and the stories and playbooks
behind them. I'm Ben Gilbert.
>> I'm David Rosenthal.
>> And we are your hosts. Almost everyone
needs transportation. It is a giant
market serving a huge human need and it
is one of the top three things that
households spend money on along with
their housing and their food. And the
automobile has become the default way
that humans move around the world.
>> And that is not what we're talking about
today. And this episode has absolutely
nothing to do with any of that. Today's
episode, listeners, is about selling
dreams. Oh yes, we are talking about
Ferrari, one of the most paradoxical
companies that we have ever studied here
on acquired. Ferrari ships very very few
cars, around 14,000 per year. That is
approximately the number of Toyotas that
are sold every 10 hours.
But of course, we know Toyota and
Ferrari are a silly comparison. So what
about a company that we have covered in
the past, Porsche? Yeah,
>> even Porsche ships 22 times the number
of cars that Ferrari does. And yet, even
though almost nobody owns a Ferrari,
only about 180,000 people globally, they
have among the highest brand
recognition. I would argue that over a
billion people know what a Ferrari is
easily.
>> Which means, David, that Ferrari has the
highest ratio of people who know about
their products to people who actually
own their products of any company in
human history.
>> I think we got to scope it to companies
that make products that are nominally
available for purchase by consumers. But
>> yes,
>> but yes.
>> Yes. Like the space shuttle is a
product, but you can't go go buy a a
space shuttle. So, I would say Ferrari
is the only ultra luxury brand that has
reached mass cultural awareness.
>> Yeah,
>> there's some fun numbers just to keep
putting this in perspective. There are
10 times more Birkin and Kelly bags made
each year over at Hermes than there are
Ferraris. And there are 70 times more
Rolexes made each year than there are
Ferraris.
>> Yeah, it's wild.
>> The paradoxes continue. People are dying
for their SUVs and yet they limit them
to just 20% of total volume.
>> Wait, what is this SUV of which you
speak?
>> I'm sorry. Ferrari utility vehicle cuz
they would never
>> Yes, the FUV. The Ferrari utility
vehicle.
>> Ford, here's another good one. Makes 160
times the number of cars that Ferrari
does. Yet Ferrari has a higher market
capitalization. They're worth more than
the Ford Motor Company and Volkswagen
and Honda and Stalantis and
MercedesBenz. This company is worth so
much more than most giant manufacturers.
Ferrari makes all of their cars mostly
by hand, inefficiently, and oneoff in a
single town, Marinelo, Italy, and they
have the highest margins in the entire
auto industry. of the very few cars that
they do make, this is my favorite one,
David, about 80% of them are earmarked
specifically for people who already own
a Ferrari.
>> Right. Right. Right.
>> So that means there's less than 3,000
new customers buying Ferraris in any
given year.
>> It's actually completely insane, right?
>> When you think about it,
>> this funnel narrows pretty tight. So,
how on earth did Ferrari manage to build
this incredibly valuable business while
selling their cars to almost nobody?
Well, the answer is bloody. It is half a
century of death and speed and love and
feeling alive. And of course, there are
some of the most clever business model
mechanics that we have ever studied here
on Acquired.
>> It really is very Italian, you might
say.
>> Yeah, it's beautiful. It's tragic. It's
romantic.
>> There's death, sex, betrayal, and uh
very, very fast cars. Well, listeners,
if you are interested in the big
takeaways from each episode in writing,
you should join our email list at
acquired.fm/e.
You can also get past episode
corrections, exclusive behind-the-scenes
photos that we found during our
research. We'll be sending some of those
out for this episode. And you can vote
on future episode topics. Plus, we will
give away a little hint about the next
episode each time. That's acquired.fm/e.
Come talk about this episode with us in
Slack at acquired.fm/slack
or by clicking the link in the show
notes. And before we dive in, we want to
thank our presenting partner JP Morgan
Payments.
>> Yes, just like how we say every company
has a story, every company's story is
powered by payments. And JP Morgan
Payments is a part of so many of their
journeys from seed to IPO and beyond.
>> So with that, this show is not
investment advice. David and I may have
investments in the companies we discuss.
And this show is forformational and
entertainment purposes only. David
Rosenthal, take us to Italy. Ooh. All
right. Well, we start in 1898 in the
medieval Italian town of Monna with the
birth of our hero Enzo Anelmo Jeppe
Maria Ferrari. better known of course
either by the name of the company he
would found that bears his last name
Ferrari or to his hundreds of millions
of fans around the world simply as Enzo.
So Enzo is born here in 1898 in Modina
the second of two sons and his mother
Adalisa is a beautiful young woman. His
father, Alfredo, is 12 years older than
his mother. And his father runs a
successful metalworking shop and is kind
of like a, you know, fairly wellto-do
middle-class entrepreneur about town.
And Enzo and his father are often at
odds growing up. But, uh, part of his
dad does rub off on him in this sort of
entrepreneurial influence. His dad, uh,
says something to him which sticks with
Enzo for the rest of his life. A company
is perfect when the number of partners
in it is odd and less than three.
I.e. don't take on partners. Always be
self-sufficient.
>> It's a great quote. We should say that
much of this history, this whole episode
comes from the fantastic really
definitive biography of Enzo called Enzo
Ferrari written by Luca Delonte who
worked at Ferrari and Maserati for many
years and then after he retired
dedicated about a decade of his life to
researching and writing this definitive
biography. It's really excellent. So
anyway, his mother and his father are
always fighting. They're always yelling,
arguing, swearing. And this has a very
different effect on each of their two
children. For Enzo's older brother, who
is named after his father, he's also
named Alfredo, nicknamed Dino to tell
them apart. He, Dino, becomes like the
golden child. He's the peacemaker, the
pleaser, the stver, the smart and
successful one. He's going to make his
parents proud, and he's going to take
over the family business. Enzo, on the
other hand, as the younger brother, he
just takes right after all the sort of
less savory parts of mom and dad. He's
mischievous. He doesn't apply himself in
school or pay any attention. And you
know, why should he? His family's got
money for the place in time. His older
brother, Dino, the golden child, you
know, is going to make them proud. He's
going to take over the family business.
Enzo can just kind of knock about town.
He dreams of someday maybe becoming a
journalist or a opera singer mostly so
that he can, you know, hang out with the
show girls.
>> Oh, what could have been a very
different Enzo Ferrari?
>> Uh, well, his life is an opera as we
shall see. So, there's one thing though
that really captivates Enzo's spirit,
which is the new modern sporting and
leisure pursuit of automobile racing.
And one blissful night when Enzo is a
teenager, he declares to his best friend
his true intention in life. I am going
to be a racing driver. And that dream
does indeed come true, but probably not
in any way that Enzo expected that night
because very shortly thereafter, World
War I breaks out and two tragedies
happen to Enzo in quick succession.
First, his father, Alfredo, contracts
pneumonia and dies unrelated to the war.
He just got pneumonia and and suddenly
died. Shortly thereafter,
his older brother, Dino, the golden
child, goes off, enlists in the Italian
army where he also contracts pneumonia
and dies. So Enzo is left alone with his
mother that he needs to support. the
family business is gone. And because
Enzo has never applied himself, he has
no discernable skills or ability to
continue it or, you know, really do much
else that would uh provide gainful
employment for him here. That was
supposed to be Dino's role in the
family. Now, before Enzo can stop to
really think, he too gets drafted into
the army where he also comes down with
pneumonia and nearly dies, but he
survives. He's the one who survives. He
has a quote later in life where he sort
of acknowledged this emotional burden
and his life's work that he would go on
to create where he said, "I feel alone
after a life crowded by so many events
and almost guilty of having survived."
>> Yeah. I mean, the title of his memoirs
is my terrible joys. Tells you
everything you need to know right there
about Enzo's life.
>> Yep. So when he comes back home to Mona
at the end of the war, he has no hope,
but he does still have his dream of
motor racing. And remember, he's still
like a teenager basically at this point,
a late teenager, early 20some. He starts
making noise to his mom about selling
the family house to finance buying a
racing car and that he's going to go out
and race this car and win prize money to
support them.
>> It's an audacious plan.
>> It's an audacious plan. His mom is like,
"Uh, no.
How about instead, how about this? Why
don't you go try to get a job at a car
company and see where things go from
there?" And so it's like, "Okay, okay,
fair compromise." So his mom arranges
for him to travel to Turan, big city in
the northeast of Italy, where he
interviews for a job at Fiat. And Fiat
is the biggest Italian car company at
the time and will come back up many,
many times in this story. It is, as you
all probably know, essentially the Ford
Motor Company of Italy. And the family
behind it, the Anellis, are the
wealthiest and most important
industrialists
basically in the history of Italy. And
today they own and control both
Stalantis, which is the merged result of
Viet Chrysler and Pujo. And they also
own and control Ferrari. Don't worry,
we'll get there.
>> We'll get there, but not for I mean the
better part of a century here.
>> Yes. Yes. So back to Enzo here in 1918,
Fiat of course rejects his job
application because again he has no
discernable skills. But Enzo is
persistent and in 1919 he lands a job at
a new startup automobile company called
CMN. And there he pledges his future
salary, like the next several months of
his salary to purchase for himself one
of the company's sports cars that he
then goes off and takes racing. So he
didn't have to sell his house to finance
this dream, but he did pledge his future
salary. Now, this is an important point
to land here. With very few exceptions,
one of which we'll talk about in just a
minute, motor racing at this point in
time was a private individual sport.
Drivers generally bought and raced their
own cars either because they were
independently wealthy and successful and
could afford their own staffs and
mechanics to maintain these cars. These
were folks known as gentleman racers.
>> That's right. I've heard that term.
>> Yes. And this is the group of people
that ultimately once Ferrari gets
founded become Enzo's core client base.
Or the other group of drivers at this
time are like Enzo. They're these kind
of like hustlers and dreamers who manage
to glom on somewhere in the car industry
and leverage that into entering races.
But basically motorsport was this like
passionate sort of privateeer pursuit,
not organized professional racers on
highly paid teams.
>> Yes. So Enzo enters into this world and
he does pretty well. well enough not
only to send some prize money back home
to mom but also to attract the attention
of Alpha Romeo which is Italy's other
large car company at the time although
much much smaller than Fiat and Alpha
has one of Italy and Europe's few if not
only in-house racing teams so even
though most racing that's happening is
privateeers Alpha has their own racing
team which is pretty unique for Europe
at the time So they scoop up this young
hot shot talented driver Enzo to come
and race for them. And this is a huge
coup for Enzo. Like basically his whole
dream as a teenager is coming true. He's
racing. He's making money from prizes.
He's part of this Alfa Romeo team that's
going to support him, provide him great
vehicles to race and also mechanics and
everything he needs. So he hatches a
plan that he's going to cash in on this
newfound fame and notoriety by starting
his own business. He's going to be an
entrepreneur just like his dad. So at
age 22 in 1920, Enzo starts his first
company, a coach building business in
Madna called Karatzeria Amelia. Now what
is a coach building business? This is
another really important point to
understand about the car business at
this point in time. For most companies
and especially car companies that were
making sports cars, the actual bodies or
the coaches were built and designed by
third-party coach builders. The cars
were just an engine and a chassis that
the car maker would deliver. And then
the clients would go to a coach maker
like this one that Enzo is starting up
and have them build the body to their
taste and specifications that would go
on top of, you know, the mechanics of
the car.
>> Yeah. It reminds me of our Rolex episode
where the movement makers were totally
different than the case makers which
were totally different than the jewelry
stores that sold them. Not the sort of
integrated way that we know it today of
the movement maker is often the same as
the case maker and then you often just
sell sort of pseudo directly.
>> Yes, totally. In this case, it's
actually a holdover from the horsedrawn
carriage days where the coach builders
built carriages but they obviously
didn't supply the horses. So the same
thing starts to emerge here in the early
automobile industry. So Enzo's
admittedly pretty halfbaked plan here is
that thanks to his sure to come, you
know, new fame and fortune as an Alfa
Romeo race car driver, customers, Alfa
Romeo customers and customers of other
car companies are going to come banging
down his door to build their car bodies,
to build their coaches. what the
connection is between being a good race
car driver and being a great coach
builder. I'm not sure. And uh neither is
the market because the business does not
go well. It's a failure and within 2
years Enzo is bankrupt. Now perhaps
relatedly, Enzo's sort of metal as a
professional race car driver also proves
to be good, but he's not great. He has
all the talent, all the skill, but he
comes to realize he doesn't have the one
final thing that separates the true
motorsport champions from everyone else.
He's too afraid to die. He can't push
himself and the car to the point that's
really, really, really on the edge.
>> The limit, as they say.
>> The limit. Yes. Part of this, of course,
is his sort of haunted past. You know,
the deaths of his brother and father.
death has had this huge presence in his
life, but also it's very much his
presence. So once he joins the Alfa
Romeo team, there's two sort of senior
drivers on the team who really take him
under his wing as mentors and they
become friends and Enzo watches them
both die during races at the wheel. The
first of which Enzo was the first person
to find him and he actually literally
died in Enzo's arms. And so after all
these experiences, Enzo just he can't
push himself to do the same thing over
and over like they did.
>> And that is the sick reality of racing,
at least in this point in history, is it
is the people who are absolutely willing
to go right up to that line and and
maybe cross it,
>> often cross it.
>> I mean, it kind of depends where you put
the line. Those who win are the ones who
are absolutely willing to die.
>> I mean, in our Formula 1 episode, we
talked about through the 70s, right?
There was an average of more than one
death a year in Yep. Formula 1 out of a
field of only like 20 drivers. So yeah,
that's the reality for a very long time
in this business. And paradoxically,
that's also part of the appeal. So in
1924, Enzo makes the decision to quit
racing, cast off the coach building
business, and instead open a Alfa Romeo
dealership in Madna.
>> Oh, I didn't know this.
>> Yeah. He's now married. He wants to have
a family. His son, naturally named Dino,
would be born a few years later. Dino
after his father and brother. Basically,
he's going down the timehonored path of
retired exathlete with some degree of
notoriety opens local car dealership.
>> Pioneering.
>> Pioneering. Now, toward the end of his
racing career, Enzo had also gotten more
involved in the actual management of the
team and gotten to know some of the
managers of Alfa Romeo, the company
itself. So, he still has these close
connections to the company which are
certainly going to help him in becoming
a dealer. And then the very next year,
the Alfa Romeo board of directors makes
the inexplicable decision to drastically
cut back on their racing activities, and
they're going to keep the company team,
but only going to enter a few races, and
the budget is going to be cut. And so,
Enzo's like, "Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa,
whoa, whoa, whoa. Hang on a sec here. I
need the publicity from the Alfa Romeo
racing team. That's my only like
connection to fame here and why people
would come to my dealership and buy my
cars. Uh I I kind of need to have Alphas
racing on a regular basis. So he goes to
Alfa Romeo headquarters in Milan with a
proposal. I understand that you want to
cut the expense, you know, sort of
day-to-day of running your own racing
team. What if I take it over and all the
races that you don't want to run, you
bless me, your dealer, Enzo Ferrari, as
the official racing agent of Alfa Romeo,
and I'll put together my own private
team. I'll hire the drivers. I'll hire
the mechanics. I'll cover the costs,
>> right? It's like a fully outsourced
racing team that's just kind of a
contract relationship. You don't have to
have this on your books. This is sort of
loose affiliation. And Forenzo, what
better marketing activity could you
imagine than to become the quasi
official racing agent sort of second
team of Alfa Romeo?
>> Yep.
>> And thus the first iteration of the
Ferrari business is born, the Scooteria
Ferrari, which is the name that he gives
to his new racing team. Scooteria being
stables in Italy. It's a stable of
drivers and cars for Alfa Romeo. And the
Ferrari racing team to this very day in
Formula 1 and elsewhere is the Scooteria
Ferrari. That is the SF that you see on
the Ferrari Shield everywhere.
>> Yep. And for a team that would go on to
adopt the prancing horse, I I am loving
the thick metaphor here with the stable
and the
>> Oh, Enzo, as we shall see, is a
natural-born marketer. So, important to
note a couple things here. The Scooteria
Ferrari is very much intended to be a
junior partner to Alfa Romeo, or at
least Alpha intends it that way, but
Enzo does in the back of his mind have
broader ambitions. As we alluded to with
the whole coach building thing, unless
you're one of the few, you know, new at
this point really mass assembly line
consumer car companies like Fiat or like
the Ford Motor Company over in America.
the line and the barrier to entry
between being a like uh garage who
develops and maintains racing cars and
graduating to making your own cars that
you sell to the privateeers who go
racing is pretty thin and Enzo's
always got this in the back of his mind
and he's got some examples out there.
So, there are other garages, for lack of
a better word, out there in Italy at the
time that have made the jump from
developing race car versions of other
cars made by other manufacturers to
selling their own cars. The prime
example being Maserati right there in
Modna, right across town, the Maserati
brothers.
>> In the video game world, this is u
modding. You're sort of taking someone's
kind of basic game and souping it up
into something really special for you
that you're customizing.
>> Yep. So Fenzo in the back of his mind,
he's like, "Okay, this is my opportunity
to build my own team, hire my own
engineers and mechanics, use hopefully
my team's success combined with the
Scooteria Ferrari brand that I'm
building, maybe someday I too can launch
my full-on car company like the Maserati
brothers across town."
>> So as he gets going with this
grandmaster plan and, you know,
developing the Scooteria, he knows that
he needs to build up more than just his
own operations. He also does need to
build a brand if he's going to sell his
own cars someday. And specifically, he
needs a logo, and he's got the perfect
one. But before we tell the story of the
legend of the Ferrari prancing horse,
now is a great time to thank our
presenting partner, JP Morgan Payments.
>> Yes. And one thing that kept coming up
listeners in our research for Ferrari is
just how global they have been from
their early days. Of course
headquartered in Italy but selling cars
to the US and around the world as we
will soon get to from those early days.
And behind any company operating at that
scale, there is a massive engine
orchestrating money movement behind the
scenes.
>> That's right. It's an enormous amount of
complexity. paying suppliers in one
currency, collecting receivables in
another, managing exchange risk, adding
vendors and suppliers, and of course,
staying compliant in all these regions.
When you're really early stage, moving
money across two or three currencies,
you can manage it yourself. But going
from 3 to 20 is like a completely
different situation.
>> Yes. And the companies that get this
right, that make those strategic
investments in payments infrastructure
early, those are the ones that scale.
That's what JP Morgan Payments
crosscurrency solutions are built for.
They send payments in 120 currencies.
They receive payments in 40 across more
than 200 countries and territories. That
means that you get seamless integration
through their APIs that plug directly
into your existing Treasury workflow.
And that gives you real-time visibility
and control over your transactions. The
whole goal is to make global money
movement invisible. And because there's
so much complexity required behind the
scenes to make it feel invisible, the
stability and scale of JP Morgan's
global payments network plus local
market infrastructure is really what
makes it possible. It is one of those
things where the scale is the product.
If you do the math, there are tens of
thousands of combinations of currencies
that you may need to switch in between,
not something you want to take on
yourselves. So listeners, if your
business is moving money across borders
and you need crosscurrency payment
solutions that do the hard work for you,
check out jpmorggan.com/acquired
and just tell them that Ben and David
sent you. Okay, David. So where does the
famous infamous prancing horse for
Scooteria Ferrari come from?
>> Yeah. How did all those Ferraris come to
have a black prancing horse on them? And
I gotta say, it is the strangest thing
looking at some of these old pictures
because the first thing that the
prancing horse went on was these Alfa
Romeo cars. And so there's these old
pictures of a Alfa Romeo badged car in
the fender sort of in front of the door
there's a Scooteria Ferrari prancing
horse.
>> Yes. It's bizarre to look at today.
>> Yeah. Listeners, we'll we'll send that
out in the email. So, back when Enzo was
a promising young racing driver, one of
his early fans and supporters was a
noble Italian count and countess whose
son Francesco Baraka had been Italy's
number one ace fighter pilot during
World War I, like World War I fighting.
And Baraka had won 34
aerial victories before he was
tragically, you know, killed in combat
right before the end of the war.
>> And on his airplane, he had painted as
his symbol and a good luck charm the
black prancing horse. Now, he's like a
national hero. And everybody in Italy
knows about Count Baraka and his
exploits during World War I. and his
parents are fans of Enzo. And so one
night after the war, the countess tells
Enzo, "Why don't you paint the black
horse on your car? It will bring you
luck." And to symbolize this gift, she
gives Enzo a photo of her son in front
of his plane before he was killed with
the horse and with an inscription from
her below it that Enzo should use this
symbol.
>> That's a official endorsement right
there.
>> Yeah, absolutely. Oh, absolutely. So,
here we are now. Enzo is launching his
his scooteria, his stables, you know,
his horses, and he knows that this is
the moment to put the gift to use as the
Scooteria's logo. It's perfect, stable,
horses. But it's more than that. This
man had been a national hero. Everybody
in Italy knows him and knows the symbol.
And Enzo has had it bestowed upon him,
not just with, you know, his mother's
blessing, but with the explicit
direction to put it on his race car. So
Enzo takes the prancing horse. He places
it within a yellow shield. Yellow being
the city color of Modna with the three
colors of the Italian flag above. This
is just a genius marketing move. The
prancing horse reflects both the
scooteria and links Enzo and the team to
this national hero. The shield reflects
his intention to do battle on the
racetrack. And the Italian colors
reflect the ultimate ambition to
establish this team, this company and
its future cars as the Italian national
team and sports car company.
>> Yep.
>> So in our research, I spoke to Luca
Deonteo, the legendary Ferrari chairman
who would ultimately succeed Enzo and
really in many ways be his heir as we
will tell in this story. Important to
note, different Luca than the Luca who
wrote the book, David, that most of this
narrative is based on.
>> Yes. And I asked Montealo, you know, you
knew Enzo probably as deeply and as well
as just about anybody who's still alive
today. And there's this kind of popular
legend that Enzo was just a racer. He
only wanted to race. He didn't really
care about business or road cars. And
all the road cars only existed to fund
his racing activities. Oh, this is the
biggest thing about people today. When I
say, "Oh, we're doing an episode on
Ferrari." They say, "Oh my gosh, yeah,
it's such a crazy story cuz, you know,
Enzo really just wanted to race cars and
he built this car company, but really
that was just sort of to finance the
racing and he doesn't even care about
those road cars. He's not really a
business guy. He just wants to make
great cars with great engines and and
send them racing."
>> Completely false.
Monteze confirmed when I asked him, Enzo
was a naturalb born entrepreneur and
marketer. He he really was Italy's Steve
Jobs in every aspect. I mean, think
about it. What was Steve Jobs? Steve
Jobs was was not an engineer. He was a
marketer. The same as Enzo. Enzo is not
an engineer. He's not a car mechanic. He
can't build the cars himself. But they
both had a sort of understanding and
deep appreciation for the technical
things that enabled their visions to be
possible.
>> Yes. Enzo would say about himself when
asked that, you know, he's not an
engineer, he's not a car designer, he's
no longer a driver, even though he runs
this team, he is quote an agitator of
men. And that perfectly described Enzo
and I think, you know, perfectly
describes Steve Jobs, too.
>> Yep. So if you think about it, what is
Enzo doing here with the brand that he's
building? There's the prancing horse and
then what's the other famous, you know,
visual symbol associated with Ferrari?
The red Ferrari red Roso Corsa that he
adopts here. And sure, you know,
Ferraris are red because red was the
assigned national racing color of Italy.
But come on, Enzo is the one who
embraced it and imbued this Rasa Corso
with so much more than just the national
racing color of Italy. It's not Alfa
Romeo's colors. It's Ferrari's colors.
>> Right. When you draw a picture of a race
car today, let's say you're 10 years
old, you're coloring it red. And you're
coloring it red because that is Ferrari
red.
>> Yes. And what does red represent? It's
passion. It's blood. It's desire. It's
all of this that is all deeply wrapped
up into a Ferrari. I mean, just look at
Italy's other luxury supercar company
today, Lamborghini. You know what their
colors are? Not red.
In fact, their color is every color but
red
because Ferrari has co-opted it.
>> Yeah.
>> So, back to the scooter here. After a
couple years, in 1933, the golden
opportunity arrives for Enzo. Alfa Romeo
finally decides that it is going to
disband its official racing team
entirely and designate Scooteria Ferrari
as its official racing operation in all
races all across the globe. So Enzo
acquires quote unquote the entire Alpha
operation, engineers, mechanics,
everything. And his dream has come true.
He is not only Alfa Romeo's official
racing team, but by this point in time,
Alpha had been nationalized by the
fascist Italian state by Mussolini.
>> So he is Italy's official national
racing team. There's just one problem,
though. which is that Alpha got out of
the racing business for a reason because
Hitler is coming to power in Germany and
one of Hitler's most you know kind of
important national agenda items is
making sure that his German auto
industry is the best and that he proves
it on the racetrack just like you know
the Olympics. So throughout the rest of
the 1930s, the German state is
supporting Mercedes and Auto Union,
which would go on to become Audi today,
and their cars are just dominating
European Grand Prix racing. So Enzo and
Ferrari are like sent out there, you
know, by Alpha and the Italians to
compete, but it's a fool's errand. Mhm.
>> And so in 1938,
Alfa and Mussolini kind of, you know,
fed up with losing, they actually
acquire the Scooteria Ferrari and remake
it, you know, as part of Alfa Romeo into
this official sort of government entity.
>> Huh. So they decide actually we do want
to put resources behind this and now
you're kind of the only game left in
town since we shut down the other
operations.
>> Yeah. I mean, at the end of the day,
this is just rearranging deck chairs
because the the war is coming. So the
very next year, Hitler invades Poland
and World War II begins. Needless to
say, European automobile racing is uh on
hold indefinitely.
>> Yes. During this period, Enzo gets into
a fight with Alfa Romeo management and
manages to get himself fired.
>> Yeah. This is 1939.
He cares about one thing and that's auto
racing. It's just not the strategic
priority for Alfa Romeo as a company or
for the country. And so I think this
this friction kind of leads to it. The
crazy thing is his separation agreement,
I I think he got paid to to leave, but
yes, you know, he it's a firing, forbids
him for four years from a building cars
to race them and b using the name
Ferrari associated with a racing team or
a car builder. Like he he he lost the
rights to his own name for four years.
>> Well, I mean, you know, he gave them up
to the Italian government essentially.
Yep. So, speaking of which, during the
war, Enzo creates a new company to feed
the Italian war effort that he names
Auto AIO Construction. Auto and Aviation
Construction, which is, but he sneaks
that auto in there cuz
>> not really supposed to be building cars
and racing them, but like I'm doing
other stuff, too. Yeah.
>> It's not called Ferrari. It's not called
Ferrari, but this same company is better
known today as Ferrari Socia per Azioni
or Ferrari spa, the Ferrari joint stock
company that is publicly traded on the
New York Stock Exchange under the ticker
race.
>> Yes. Best stock ticker ever.
>> Best stock ticker ever indeed. So, what
is this company doing? They're they're
not making cars even though auto is in
the name. They're making machine tools
in the workshops and the essentially
factory that Enzo has created there in
Madna. And on each tool throughout the
war effort that they make, Enzo has them
stamp the prancing horse and the word
Scooteria Ferrari Madna. Clearly
signaling his intentions after the war
of uh you know what what he's going to
do.
>> I bet those are some very valuable
collector's items if you can find them.
So anyway, Enzo and his factory are
pretty good at making these machine
tools and they become part of the war
effort. So as the war wears on and the
allies, you know, push into Europe, Enzo
and the government start to worry about
them bombing the factory in Modna. So in
1943, he decides that he's going to move
all of his operations out to a small
little town in the countryside to avoid
the bombing. He's going to go about 15
kilometers south of Mona to Marinelo.
And that's why Ferrari to this very day
is in the small little, you know, hamlet
of Marinelo, not in the bigger city of
Mona.
>> Yep.
>> So even despite the move to Marinelo,
the factory does get bombed twice during
the last days of the war. After the war,
that leaves Enzo kind of at a
crossroads. The factory is not quite in
ruins, but it's in, you know, it's been
bombed.
>> Disarray. Disarray. Significant
disarray.
>> Disarray. And he's just spent the last
four or five years building machine
tools and gotten pretty good at it.
>> Yep. And then Enzo gets a visit from an
old racing pal. An Italian, but one who
spent the war not in Europe, but in
exile in America,
Luigi Kennedy, the man who brings
Ferrari to America. So Luigi and Enzo
met way back when Enzo joined the Alfa
Romeo racing team as a driver. And Luigi
was a mechanic on the team who also then
became a driver and he ends up in New
York. And when the war is over, Luigi
goes back to Italy to visit Enzo and he
tells him about America. So this is a
quote here from Brock Yates's biography
of Enzo. Brock Yates was the longtime
editor of Car and Driver magazine.
Kennedy described the miracle that was
America, the aggressiveness of its
people, their childlike inquisitiveness,
and their bourgeoa cuitities. Yet there
was a rich upper class whose taste were
European. He had seen them, met them,
gained their trust as he kept their
aging European automobiles operating
through the war years. He knew they
would pay a king's ransom for Enzo's
elite machines. And he, Luigi Kennedy,
meant to exploit that naive colonial
lust.
>> What writing?
>> What writing? Enzo
agrees. Now, legends would say later,
and Luigi, I think, would probably
perpetuate this himself, that Luigi is
the one who convinced Enzo to abandon
the machine tools business and focus
only on cars again after World War II.
That's false. Enzo was planning to
anyway. There's There's no way that he
really was going to go into machine
tools.
>> I mean, by 1943, his non-compete is up
and he's allowed to use the name again.
And so, you know, clock's ticking.
>> The clock's ticking. But it is true.
Luigi definitely convinced Enzo about
America and America was critical for
Ferrari. And you know what wealthy
Americans are extremely interested in
when they're considering if they're
going to buy a extremely expensive rare
automobile. They love that cold shoulder
of a artist creating the car
mysteriously in some small town in Italy
who's just interested in racing. He's
not interested in mass market cars.
You're just lucky to get one of these
racing cars and he couldn't even care
less about you.
>> Oh yeah. Oh yeah.
>> That sells cars.
>> And boy does Enzo know it.
>> Yeah. He totally leans into this. This
is like part of the perpetrating of the
myth. This is why everybody believes,
oh, he wasn't really a businessman. He
just wanted to race cars.
>> Yeah. I mean, oh, he the the whole
persona of Enzo Ferrari, you know, the
dark sunglasses.
>> Oh, yeah. What's the tidbit you got on
the sunglasses?
>> It was an act. You know, we would wear
the sunglasses in public and it, you
know, press interviews and in meetings
with clients or whomever and then
everybody else would leave the room and
he'd just take them off and put them on
the table. He didn't wear sunglasses all
the time, only when crafting his image.
But, uh, yeah, he leaned into it. Yep.
So, one way or another, machine tool
business is out the window and Enzo is
back in cars. 1947 is the first year
that they get going with the newly
renamed auto construction Ferrari now
that he can use the Ferrari name.
>> In 1947 they build three cars just for
team racing just for the scooteria in
which during the year they enter 14
races and win seven of them. pretty good
50% win rate for yeah you know they
newly rebuilt Scooteria Ferrari they
didn't sell any of those cars
>> yes Enzo Ferrari to this point in
history has not sold a car yet how old
is he David
>> he is in 1947 he's 49 years old
>> I mean this is like this great classic
sort of founder myth of the young hot
shot who starts this thing Ferrari yes
it's a racing team but it is a car
company who sells cars to consumers and
by age 49 Enzo had never done that.
>> Yes. Now he has established the brand
and the myth and put all the pieces in
place to create Ferrari but yes he did
not sell a single car to a customer
until 1948 when they introduced the
Ferrari 166 Betta at the Turin Motor
Show. And Luca Delonte in his biography
writes, "For Enzo Ferrari, the 166 MM
Baretta was a declaration of intent, a
sports car with a sensual shape, as fast
and powerful as it was beautiful and
elegant. It was the foundation on which
from that moment on he would build every
road model. cars capable of winning
races on circuits and roads all over the
world and at the same time being the
protagonist of the most prestigious
Concord deleg in the four corners of the
earth. What a great description of what
a Ferrari is.
>> Absolutely. Enzo is really figuring out
how to create desire here.
>> Yes. Yes. These machines
are beautiful
and they are deadly. That is the point.
You can enter them in a race. You can be
competitive. You might even win as we
see in a second. And you can drive them
around town and look beautiful and
elegant when they work.
Yeah. The Ferraris in this era in
history that we're talking about here,
you know, the late 40s, 50s, 60s, these
were not the most reliable machines,
especially the road cars. I think you
could also lump in the 70s and the 80s
large chunk of the 90s.
>> I mean there's this fascinating thing
about luxury that reliability is not
actually a relevant part of the equation
of how desirable how much do I lust
after this machine.
>> I think it's from the luxury strategy
book anti-law of marketing number
something or other is ensure that your
product has enough flaws.
>> Yes,
>> boy do Ferraris have a lot of flaws.
>> Yep. So this first Ferrari, the 166
Bartetta, they produce about a dozen of
them that year in 1948, both to race
themselves with their own team drivers
and also sell them to wealthy private
clients. Two of the very first models
are sold to American clients through
Luigi Kennedy.
>> One to Tommy Lee who is a wealthy
Cadillac dealer in Los Angeles and one
to Briggs Cunningham who is one of the
Proctor and Gamble heirs.
>> You get a sense of like who are the
customers in America,
>> right? They're setting the precedent.
Others are sold to various European
racers and nobility, including Italy's
own most celebrated industrialist, Giani
Anelli, the patriarch of the Anelli
family, which owns Fiat. Some might say
the Henry Ford of Italy.
>> The founding family of Fiat. Yeah.
>> Not only the owners, but the founders.
He was one of the first Ferrari
customers.
>> He was indeed. He bought a 166 Bartetta.
That's an amazing full circle
>> poetic.
>> We'll come back to that at the end of
the story.
>> Oh yes, we will. So then the next year,
Luigi Kennedy, he's a real believer in
the potential of these machines that
Enzo is building to make a lot of money
and generate a lot of desire. So he
takes one of the 166s and he enters it
in the first running of the 24 hours of
Leal to be run after World War II, the
first, you know, post-war running of
Leal. And the car that he takes, Enzo
doesn't think the 166 is ready for Leal.
He doesn't want to enter. But Kennedy
says, "No, no, I'm going to go do it."
So he takes a privatelyowned car owned
by the British nobleman and gentleman
driver Lord Seldon and they win they win
Lemon.
>> Oh wow.
>> Like the whole thing
>> not endorsed by Ferrari the company just
a sort of gentleman driver.
>> It is the first major international race
victory for a Ferrari car but it's not
run by the Ferrari team. So this is a
big deal. This is the first time it's
being run after the war. And here's this
startup Italian I mean startup.
Everybody knows the heritage of Enzo
Ferrari and who he is. But here's a
Ferrari winning. And it's like the
perfect illustration of the business
model and Enzo's entrepreneurial genius.
You know, he's got the brand. It's the
Ferrari that won, but it doesn't even
have to be his own racing team,
>> right? Oh, that's interesting. It
creates just as much consumer desire for
those cars, whether it's him entering
the competition or not. All anybody
knows and all anybody in America
definitely knows is a Ferrari just one
leal. And man, I got to get my hands on
one of those things.
>> And it really validates the engine. I
mean, this is famously Enzo Ferrari's
reputation is he was an engine guy. He's
got a few sort of great quotes on this.
His comment is, I sell engines and the
car I throw in for free.
>> Yes. Such a great quote. Another great
one, aerodynamics are for people who
can't build engines.
>> That's like that what uh the AMD guy uh
real men build fabs.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah.
>> Yes. Eventually Ferrari would become
very much about aerodynamics in addition
to engines.
>> Yes. Yes. But we know where Enzo's heart
always was.
>> Yes. He also famously was a late adopter
of new technology. This is very very
different today, but in the early days,
I mean, we're going to talk about
Formula 1 here shortly, but in those
early days of F1, other teams figured
out, hey, you should probably move the
engine to be a mid engine, sort of above
the rear axle, not in the front of the
car. And Enzo is very Yeah, like he's
biting his time. He's like, wait and
see. And he's got this idea that in a
carriage, the the horse pulls the
carriage.
>> Yeah. God put the horse in front of the
carriage, so the engine's going in front
of the car. Yeah.
>> Surely the engine should be in the
front. Yes. And it took years to to
adopt the sort of correct most balanced
way to do it because he not only wanted
to be a late adopter of technology to
sort of let other people prove it out
but also because he was in a position to
do so as a very early sort of luxury
pioneer here. He realized that it only
helped build the Ferrari myth.
>> Yes. Exactly.
>> To talk about the old ways of doing
things.
>> This is the point. It's all about the
mythb building. Enzo knew exactly what
he was doing.
>> He even There's funny entries in the
historical record here where in the same
month that Enzo is out there talking
about how the engine belongs in the
front of the car in Marinelo, there are
teams who are constructing next year's
mid-enine car. So, say one thing, do the
other.
>> Yes. Yes. Very Enzo. It's worth a moment
here to talk about what actually is
Ferrari at this point in time after Lal
and when they're selling the 166 because
it's pretty pioneering. It's three
separate things all under the same roof.
It's its own professional racing team.
It is a worldclass racing car
constructor that builds cars both for
its own team and for private clients.
And it's also all of the support
infrastructure that you need to do both
of those things. So it's not like
Canadian Lord Seldon could just buy a
166 and drive it up to France and like
enter Lemon. You got to tune these
things for the race that you're driving.
And Ferrari is providing that for his
own team and for his clients. This is
pretty revolutionary. Nobody else had
really created something like this
before. You know, other car
manufacturers as we talked about with
Alpha or Mercedes or or even for a point
in time even Fiat had their own racing
teams, but they were separate
operations. Like think about the
Mercedes racing team today. You know, it
is a completely separate operation.
>> Yes. Or most of the F1 operations today
that carry the name of a constructor of
a a car brand, they're actually separate
companies that happen to be owned by
>> Yeah. Separate locations.
>> Yes. The whole thing. Like Yes. There is
some tech transfer, I'm sure, from the
Mercedes F1 team to AMG performance
cars, but like it's a tenuous
connection.
>> Whereas in Marinelo, they're sitting
there on the same plot of land.
>> For many decades, the early history of
Ferrari, it's the same people. Yeah.
>> Same people making the same cars under
the same roof. Pinnacle of motorsports,
road cars that you can buy, built and
maintained and serviced by the very same
people. That is an incredible
proposition as a client. I mean, and if
you think about it, it's really not that
different from any other luxury company
heritage out there like Thierry Hermes
and his sons making saddles for the
nobility and the new O bourgeoisi on the
boulevards in Paris and also making
saddles for the jockeyies jumping and
racing on the weekends. They're the same
people making the same saddles. Enzo and
his team are the same people making the
same cars. But I think you nailed this
point that I think is a little bit lost
today, which is even then in 1950ish,
you're not just going to go buy a
Ferrari and then race it. This is a
highly maintained serviced thing that is
not just like a product that you own. It
is a bundle of product and services that
get it ready for any given situation.
>> Yeah, we joked earlier about the, you
know, you could drive these things on
the street when they worked. That was
part of the point. Like they were built
to be racing machines, right? And a lot
of clients didn't race them or, you
know, if they did race them, race them
not very well. But the point was you
could. This was a weapon. This is not a
mode of transportation. That's a
trade-off clients were intentionally
willing to make. This is not the most
practical car. It's going to have all
sorts of issues if I want to use it as
my daily driver, but it's an amazing
race machine. And because I race, or
maybe not because I race, I want to own
a race machine. And so I'm buying it,
trade-offs and all.
>> Yes. Yes. So then in 1950, the pinnacle
of motorsport arrives, the new Formula 1
World Championship Series, as we talked
about at great length on our Formula 1
episode. And Ferrari, of course, would
become one of the founding teams and the
only F1 team continuously operating from
the beginning of the sport all the way
through to today.
But of course, they are participating in
the pinnacle of motorsport, as we've
just been talking about, is integral to
what Ferrari is. And if you buy a
Ferrari as a client, what you are buying
is a direct connection to that ongoing
heritage in a way that you are not with
any other auto manufacturer, at least
not at this point in history in 1950.
There have been many others who have
tried that strategy since, obviously
less successfully than Ferrari, and
we'll talk about why, but yes, this is
the Ferrari formula that they uniquely
execute well on. Yep. So,
as we continue the operetic life of Enzo
Ferrari here, the re-entry into the
racing business and the new pinnacle of
motorsport in Formula 1 unfortunately
comes with renewed tragedy. Enzo would
hire the young Alberto Escari, who is
the son of one of his two mentors who
died when Enzo was racing for Alfa
Romeo. And Enzo would take Alberto under
his wing, treat him almost like a
surrogate son until in 1955, Alberto is
killed practicing in a Ferrari at Monza
at exactly the same age that his father
died. And Enzo vows that he will never
become emotionally close to a driver
again. He's witnessed too many deaths in
his life. But unfortunately, Fenzo,
death during this time was only just
beginning to re-enter his life and his
company.
>> And the next death is really the one
that kind of defines the rest of his
life going forward.
>> Yes. But before we continue this
beautiful tragedy of Enzo Ferrari and
his company,
>> now is a great time to tell you about
one of our favorite companies, Versel.
Verscell is building the defining
developer infrastructure platform for
the agentic era. And importantly, just
like Ferrari, the crucial part is that
every part of the system is engineered
to work together at the highest possible
level. It's all about performance. And
they're not just a deployment platform
or just a framework builder or just an
AI cloud anymore. They've become the
Agentic infrastructure company.
>> And that title actually carries real
meaning. It's infrastructure built for
agents where they are first class users
of the platform alongside human
developers. It's also optimized for
human developers who integrate agents
into their workflows. And most
importantly, it's infrastructure that
acts with agency. So zero config
deploys, automatic scaling,
self-optimizing performance. The
platform handles itself. Self-driving
infrastructure as uh they like to call
it.
>> Yes. Which makes sense when you look at
what's already running on Verscell.
OpenAI, Poly Market, Stripe. Verscell
built the modern platform for the web,
which puts them in a really strong
position for the agentic web.
>> Yep. Their AI gateway sandbox and AI SDK
are trusted by everyone from solo
founders to the largest global
enterprises. And they just shipped
something really exciting, chat SDK,
which lets you build agents across
Slack, Teams, Google Chat, Discord, and
more. All from a single codebase. The AI
SDK alone gets downloaded 10 million
times a week, which is up from 7 million
times a week when we recorded our last
episode on F1 last month. Verscell
really is the one-stop shop for
everything you need to build in the
agentic era. Tools, frameworks,
infrastructure, the whole system
engineered to work together. You can
learn more at verscell.com/acquired.
That's verel.com/acquired.
and just tell him that Ben and David
sent you.
>> All right. So, here in the 1950s, the
truly truly beautiful and truly truly
tragic opera of Enzo and Ferrari
continues.
First, let's talk about the beauty. The
Ferrari
250 series, which for some of you means
a lot. For the rest of you, we're
talking about the Ferris Buer car.
Undeniably
one of the most beautiful automobiles
ever manufactured.
>> But David, did you know it is the Ferris
Buer car, but the car you see on screen
is actually not a Ferrari?
>> Yes, it's a replica. And Ferrari sued
the replica maker after the movie.
Right.
>> That's right. Believe it or not, it is
essentially a retrofitted Ford.
>> Yes. deeply ironic given what we are
going to talk about in a minute here.
>> And then there's a second version of it
that I think is even a less real
drivable car that they used when it slid
out the glass and fell down and smashed
on the ground. So, they did not wreck a
real Ferrari. In fact, there is not even
a real Ferrari in camera in that entire
movie. Or at least in that shot.
>> Yes, you don't need to worry. No 250s
were actually harmed in the making of
Ferris Pewer's Day Off.
>> Yep. So, as we talked about, the first
Ferrari that Enzo sold to clients was
the 166, but less than a hundred of them
were ever made,
>> which must mean that there was demand
for 101 because there's the the famous
Enzo Ferrari quote that is the business
strategy today. Ferrari will always
deliver one car less than the market
demand.
>> I think that actually might be the
strategy today. Back then with the 166
there was demand for a lot more than
101. That's true. But they could only
make a 100.
>> So in 1952
Ferrari comes out with the 250 series
and this is the first real production
Ferrari and over the next set of years
throughout the 50s Ferrari manufactures
a few thousand of them. So, you know,
still a very very boutique, you know,
essentially handmade sports car
manufacturer, but a lot more scale than
the hundred or so.
>> Yeah. Real production volumes.
>> Yeah. And as we were alluding to
earlier, this car is just stunning. No
matter which variant of it you're
looking at it, the the one in Ferris
Buer's Day Off is a 250 GT California.
It is truly truly beautiful. And it was
designed not by Enzo Ferrari or even
anybody who worked at Ferrari. It was
designed by Batista
Pinnin was his nickname. Fina and his
pin and firina coach builders. So
remember earlier when we talked about
Enzo's first business venture was he was
going to be a coach builder.
Turns out that was not his calling in
life, but that was the calling in life
for Pin and Firina. He was basically the
Michelangelo of car body coach builders
and Enzo totally realized it, totally
glombmed onto it and built this
beautiful partnership with Pin and Fina.
first Batista himself and then his son
Sergio and then multiple generations
that lasted 61
years. This was a multi-generational
partnership that lasts all the way up
until 2013.
>> The La Ferrari, the La Ferrari Halo car
was the first fully in-house designed
Ferrari. And during those 61 years, I
believe every single roadgoing
production Ferrari except for one, I
think, was designed by Pinfirina.
>> Wow. It's quite the run.
>> It really is. So, Luca Delonte in his
book writes, "Enzo was looking for
someone who could complement the
mechanics of his cars with their body
designs. Body and engine, elegance and
power had to go hand in hand and had to
be born and grow together." He said that
he was not looking for a tailor, but for
a coach builder who worked at his side
and conveyed in the shape of the body
the power and philosophy of his cars.
The coach builder, he said, must be
involved from the beginning of the
project, not merely called upon to dress
a finished project. It really was a
partnership between Enzo and Pin and
Firina.
>> As much as Enzo would kind of make noise
about, oh, I just make engines and then,
you know, we slap some aluminum on. I
don't really care what the aluminum is.
Uh, no. These things were thoughtfully
designed and built hand in hand.
>> Yeah. Pin and Pirina was like the Johnny
IV to the Enzo Steve Jobs.
>> That's a great analogy. that in fact
Johnny Iv is going to come back into the
story later as we shall see.
>> Yep.
>> It's probably also worth a quick moment
here to talk about the sort of Italian
nature of beauty and luxury versus the
French nature of beauty and luxury that
we've covered on Hermes or LVMH. In both
cases, French luxury and Italian luxury,
what you are buying when you are buying
one of these products is a mixture of
craftsmanship
and a dream that it represents. But the
sort of nature of those two ingredients
are different between French and Italian
luxury. The primary ingredient in French
luxury is the dream and specifically the
dreamlike connection to French royalty.
in this like mostly imagined past that
you know if you buy a Birkin bag or if
you buy a Louis Vuitton trunk you too
can be like the bygon French royalty
>> of the nobility.
>> Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. You can live
that dream. You can live that life. And
the beauty that's associated with that
is, you know, very regal, very soft,
very refined, very elegant
>> and quiet. It's not yelling at you.
There's no engines involved.
>> There are no engines involved. That is
for sure. There are French car makers,
but we're not going to make any episodes
about them, shall we say.
Italy, though, doesn't have the same
kind of history as France. I mean, it's
got like the Roman history and all that
ancient history, but it doesn't have the
same royal lineage and history. So, with
Italian luxury, the primary ingredient
is the craftsmanship, and that's
embodied in the design and the passion.
the myth, the dream that you're buying
is about reinforcing that passion, that
emotion that went into the product. And
the best way I can think of to
illustrate this is just the centrality
of the designers. Like, who are the
designers at Hermes? If you really know
the house, if you really know Hermes,
you probably know who the designers are.
But for most Hermes clients, it's just
like, oh, this is Hermes. Yeah. In
Italy, it's totally different. You could
have Gucci, but it's like, well, which
Gucci is that? Is that Tom Ford Gucci or
is that Gucci in the wilderness Gucci or
name your other designer like Giorgio
Armani or Donatella Versace or Valentino
or Brunelloo Cuchinelli today? Like the
actual people and the designers and
their passion and their personality is
much more central than in French luxury.
That's interesting. I'm not sure I
totally agree with the distinction, but
a thing that I will say is you go to
Paris to absorb the history and look at
the fine museums and you go to Italy to
feel something, to let loose,
>> to to live your life in the fullest, to
let your hair down. I mean, it's a whole
different side of life they are asking
you to embrace when you are doing
something distinctively Italian.
>> Yes, it is a very different kind of
thing. And in this era, right after
World War II, the greatest designers and
the greatest innovators in Italy were
the car designers. And these are death
machines. Totally. You're on the edge.
You're living every ounce of life that
you possibly could to the fullest. These
are death machines and they are being
designed by the era and the country's
most esteemed designers.
>> Yes. Yes. They are beautiful death
machines. beckoning to risk it all.
>> That is exactly on point. And thus comes
the yang to the yin of beauty, which is
this tragedy and death that is such a
part of Ferrari and motorsport. So we
talked about in 1955,
Alberto Escari, the sort of, you know,
surrogate son if you will to Enzo, is
killed at Monza. The very next year in
1956,
Enzo's own son, Dino, who he's been
grooming to take over the business,
>> continue the family lineage, his heir,
his actual heir,
>> dies at age 24 of muscular distrophe.
So, not in a race car, but a horrible
tragic disease.
>> I mean, and that's even more tragic.
>> Yeah, it's more romantic if he had died
in a race car. And Enzo has spent 24
years since Dino's birth keeping him
safe. I mean, doing everything that he
can control in his worldly power to not
be around race cars.
>> Yes. Yes. It's such a great point.
>> I mean, he's not racing them. He's
trying not to have Dino race them. He's
not meeting the drivers anymore. He's
trying not to get too wrapped up in the
the lives of the drivers. And yet, his
son is still taken from him in this
horrible illness that he cannot control
and is pure randomness and awfulness.
Such a great point and it is truly
shattering for Enzo. This is the
shattering event among many shattering
events in his life
>> because it's of course the grief for his
lost son,
>> but it's also the grief for his empire.
Like is is gone. He has no heir anymore.
The line won't continue. So after Dino's
death, Enzo stops going to races. It's
sort of like a self-inflicted punishment
that you know if Dino can't be here with
me to go to the races then I will no
longer travel to and go to the races to
my great terrible joys and it is both
the end of his family line or so he
believes at this point in history but
also it's the end of sort of the
inherited company that this is an old
school era of capitalism where the
company would be passed down through the
male heir in the family. I mean, today
Ferrari is a publicly traded company
with multiple families and owners and
parent companies and holding companies
involved. Enzo's assumption here is that
none of that is going to happen in the
far future. It is that Dino, my son,
will own it and his descendants will own
it. Well, if you know anything about the
shareholding structure of Ferrari today
or its board of directors, you might
say, "Wait a minute. There sure is a
Ferrari who owns it."
>> Yeah. Isn't there a current member of
the Ferrari board of directors named
Pierro Ferrari who owns 10% of the
company and is also the biological son
of Enzo who very much would have been
alive at this time.
>> Yep.
>> So Enzo had an affair. Enzo had many
affairs, but one of his affairs with a
woman named Lena Lardy produced a son,
Pierro. And the just devastatingly cruel
reality of Italy in that time and place
is that illegitimate children by law did
not exist. They were invisible. Pierro
was invisible at this point in time. So
Enzo knows he has this other son who he
loves but who will never inherit his
empire.
>> And when you say invisible, he certainly
isn't a Ferrari. He's not taking that
surname. Divorce was illegal at this
point.
>> Yes. Divorce was not legal in Italy
until the 1970s.
>> So in the eyes of the law, like not an
heir.
>> Yeah.
>> Not capable of being an heir.
>> A tragedy is the only word that I can
think of to describe it. So that was
1956.
And then in 1957
at the Miglia race in Italy,
>> which this race, this is this amazing,
legendary race through Italy that ran
a,000 miles and it runs from 1927
to 1957.
It is
>> beautiful and bloody. There is at least
one death in every single year except
1927.
and a small span 1931 to 1934 and
another 2-year span of 36 to 37. But
basically, this was this race that
everyone came out for and watched death.
Yeah. And Enzo has a quote on this. He
loved the MLE Miglia. He said, "It is
the race of the people." One may say
that the whole of Italy leans forward
with her eyes on the tarved strip of
roads somewhere along the course on
Milleia Day. It is a day when I feel
that my life is useful.
>> Wow. I didn't realize that this 1957
race is the last one.
>> It is the last one.
>> It ends with this. Wow. So at this race
in 1957, again two years after the F1
crash that killed his driver protege,
one year after the death of Dino, a
Ferrari flies off the road and into the
crowd, killing the driver and nine
spectators, including five children.
And after the race, Enzo is charged by
the Italian authorities with
manslaughter.
>> Was he even at the race?
>> I don't believe he was at the race. No,
>> but he's the owner of the company that
made the car and there's a high death
count,
>> right? Well, it's not just that he's the
owner, it's that he is the architect of
this slaughter basically, which is
exactly what the Catholic Church charges
him with. So, not only is the Italian
state, the police, you know, charging
him with manslaughter, the church, the
pope comes after him. So, the Vatican's
official newspaper runs a story after
the race with the headline of industrial
Saturn. Saturn, of course, being the
Roman god who devoured his own children.
And it calls Enzo, quote, a modern
Saturn become industrial tycoon. He
continues to devour his sons as in the
myth. So unfortunately in reality
ultimately Enzo is acquitted after long
process in the legal case and he reaches
a compromise with the Vatican that he
can continue racing and Ferrari can
continue to sort of exist as this sort
of national champion within Italy.
>> Oh is this as long as they're not
Italian drivers
>> as long as he agrees to never hire
Italian drivers? You know, basically
like you can kill young men as long as
you don't kill our young men.
>> Brutal.
>> Oh man. But all of this, this whole era,
this just weighs incredibly incredibly
heavily on Enzo. And you might be
wondering like why do the drivers, why
are they okay with the death? Why is
Enzo okay with the death? Enzo viewed
this as a fundamental human expression
of striving. His comment is that one
drives at high speeds in order to
transcend oneself.
>> And many of the drivers would sort of
echo this same thing. Ken Miles, who is
a very famous race car driver, actually
on the Ford and Shelby, the US side that
we'll talk about here shortly, his quote
on this is, "I'd rather die in a racing
car than get eaten up by cancer." And
it's this idea that look, we're going to
die, but I get to feel like I live the
most life by putting my life at risk and
living right on the limit.
>> I mean, it's kind of actually like a way
of fighting back against death. Yes,
>> these cars are weapons to fight against
death. You can come right up and you can
like stare death in the face and you can
hopefully say not today or or not. So
again, paradoxically,
all of this tragedy is just great for
business. This is part of the
attraction. It only makes Enzo and his
Ferraris more globally known, more
romantic, more coveted. It's like for
Porsche, when James Dean died in the
Porsche 550 Spider, or in the modern era
when Paul Walker died in the Carrera GT,
that made those cars legendary. That
made people want them. Yep.
>> And here is Ferrari. It's even more. His
cars are being labeled by the Pope as
forbidden fruit. If you're a young man
or if you're a more accurately a
middle-aged man having a crisis, like
you know what more could you desire?
>> And yeah, if the Pope says you just
can't do this one thing, what's the one
thing you're going to be interested in
doing? It's like it's like a toddler.
No, you as long as you don't have candy,
we can do anything you want.
>> Exactly. So throughout the late 50s,
sales of Ferrari 250s are just ramping.
You know, they are flying out of
showrooms across the world and
particularly in America. By 1960,
production reaches 300 cars a year. You
know, they're making more or less 250
every working day. And by 1962, it's 500
cars a year. And I believe at this point
distribution is sort of roughly divided
a third a third a third between local
Italian clients, American clients and
then the rest of Europe and production
just keeps growing by call it 50 to 100
cars a year throughout the early 60s and
there is plenty of demand. Y 1963 though
Enzo is now getting older. He turns 65.
He's had all this death. He publishes
his memoirs, which you know, as we said
before, are aptly titled My Terrible
Joys. His plan by this point is that
he'd be getting ready to hand the
company to Dino, but Dino is dead. At a
press conference that's held, one of the
journalists asks Enzo, you know, you're
you're older now. What will happen to
Ferrari when you're gone? And he replies
with the famous quote from King Louis X
15th in France. a premoir leuge
chaos, you know, the French Revolution,
it's all coming after me. It's all gonna
end with me. And of course, Pierro at
this point is already working in
Ferrari. He's an employee at Ferrari,
but it's a secret that he's Enzo's son,
and he knows he can never inherit.
>> I didn't realize it was still a secret.
>> Yeah. I mean, people within the company
know, but it's like you don't talk
about, hey, Pierro is actually Enzo's
son. So the question that the journalist
asked remains though,
what's going to become of the company,
>> right?
>> Well, enter
the Ford Motor Company and Ford versus
Ferrari.
>> Yes. So listeners, most of this is from
the book Go Like Hell, which is the book
that Ford versus Ferrari is based on,
>> the movie. Yep. So in 1963, Henry Ford
II, which notably this is the grandson
of Henry Ford I, there was Henry Ford,
then Edsil, then Henry Ford II, and he's
he's looking to make his mark. I mean,
he at this point it's third generation
ownership. Ford is this great American
company. There's a lot of people that
are sort of throwing barbs saying, well,
I mean, this is your grandfather and
then that was your father, but like how
much of this is really you? That's
starting to kind of weigh on him. He
decides that Ford needs to be in the
racing business to change their image
and stimulate sales for the new
generation. Now, over in the racing land
of Ferrari, they're on a hot streak.
We've been talking about their
production at this point in time, but
they had just won Lama in 1958 and then
all in a row 1960,61 62 63 64 65. So if
you are interested in entering racing,
either you gotta beat Ferrari or you
gotta own Ferrari.
>> Yeah.
>> So the deuce, as Henry Ford II was
known,
>> what a great racing moniker. The deuce.
>> Right. Right. Oh, and Enzo's got some
great ones, too.
>> Yeah. I mean, ultimately in his older
age, he becomes the grand old man. But
what was he before that?
>> Il Commandator
and the Drake.
>> Yes.
>> He's he's got some great ones. So, the
Deuce over in America gets word, weirdly
through their German subsidiary that a
mysterious letter has arrived from the
German consulate in Milan that an
internationally known Italian automobile
factory was interested in selling.
>> So, already you should kind of
>> all right, there's something going on
here.
>> Be a little suspicious of how this
information comes to Ford. But Ford is
not. Ford just goes, "Oh, this is
interesting. Let's try and figure out
who's thinking about selling." Well, it
doesn't take him long to figure out that
it is Ferrari.
>> It sounds so.
>> Yes. They begin sort of a process to try
to buy it. And Ford at this point has
basically no racing capability of its
own. This is an entirely new muscle for
them. So, they make an offer to buy
Ferrari. The asking price was originally
$18 million, but somehow Ford manages to
easily negotiate it down to 10 million.
So again, a little mysterious, a little
suspicious. Like maybe that was a little
bit too easy. The agreement that is
drafted and hits Enzo's desk, I mean,
think about what could have been. This
is the craziest pitch. There are two
companies that are formed. One is called
Ford Ferrari. It is 90% owned by Ford
and it would make road cars. There's a
second called Ferrari Ford that's 90%
owned by Ferrari. That's the racing
team.
>> The racing team. Yep.
>> So, this document is on Enzo's desk. He
digs into it and he's looking through
the fine print and he kind of realizes
if I want to go racing and Ford does not
want to go racing, who decides? And of
course, Ford says, "Well, we're we're
buying your company. we have the final
say.
>> Ultimately, I control the budget,
>> right? So, Enzo, of course, hates this.
And in dramatic fashion, he blows up the
deal right at the finish line. All while
the papers had been reporting, you know,
the information leaked that the
Americans were about to buy this Italian
national treasure. Makes big headlines.
When the deal blows up, you can imagine
why this is in Ferrari's public
relations interest based on everything
that we've been describing about their
business strategy. Of course, then Henry
Ford II is absolutely incensed and he
has this great quote. In May of 1963, he
goes to his lieutenants and he says, "We
will go to Lama and beat his ass. We're
going to race him."
>> And Enzo's probably like picking dumb
Americans the whole time.
>> Yes. There's this great quote in the
Brock Yates book about Enzo and his
opinion of the Americans which is
something like he realized the
fundamental truth to selling European
luxury goods to Americans. Treat an
American like a hick and you'll own him
for life.
>> O that hurts.
>> Yeah,
>> that hurts. So the whole Ford versus
Ferrari movie is what happens next. And
it's it's a great movie with Christian
Bale and Matt Damon. And while it's of
course dramatized, the bones of the
story are actually pretty factually
correct. So I highly recommend it. So
what happens is Ford, who at this point
says, "We got unlimited budget. We just
got to go beat these guys." Enlist the
help of Carol Shelby and the driver Ken
Miles and sort of a real crack team of
American mechanics and and racers. They
actually do after a few years beat the
Ferraris in the 1966 Lama race finishing
with Fords in first, second, and third.
It's this incredible story, but
ultimately this is a complete sideshow.
>> Yeah. What's what's really going on?
What are Enzo's true intentions here?
So, this is done, of course, to market
the exclusivity of Ferrari and how
they're the mark to beat and it's a
great tactic to sell cars, but it's also
to signal that Enzo is willing to do a
deal.
>> He is willing to sell the company.
That's why he wanted all the papers
writing about the fact that he was, but
it had to be on his terms with the right
partner and he had to be able to go
racing.
>> Yep. It's kind of like Enzo and Ferrari
got a dual benefit out of this whole
saga. one as you said like this is only
great for the myth and the legend of
Ferrari of like oh we were going to sell
to these big ugly Americans but they
wanted to take our racing from it and we
said no you'll have to kill us in order
to take him
>> exactly and it is this Italian national
treasure I mean that's real that is the
cultural export of Italy
>> yep and it was a way to signal to the
market like hey I might be open to a
deal
>> yes so any last little misconceptions
you have about Enzo Ferrari not being an
excellent business person and negotiator
that should be completely dispelled at
this point. So David, what happens next?
So all the Ford versus Ferrari drama was
going down between the years of 1963 and
call it 19667.
>> Yep. Through all this, Enzo is doing
great. He's in his late 60s at this
point, but he's loving life. As much as
Enzo is capable of loving life, he's
healthy. He's reinvigorated by this
battle. Everything's going great. And
then after all the Ford drama in 1968,
Enzo contracts kidney disease and it's
pretty bad. Like he thinks this is
probably actually going to be the end.
>> And statistically, he was right.
>> Yeah. And it gets so bad, as we'll see
in a moment, that shortly after this in
1970, he goes into organ failure and has
to be hospitalized for months. Like he
he really should have died at this point
in time. But as always, Forenzo, fate
has other plans. So once he comes down
with the disease, he gets serious about
actually selling the company. And he
sniffs around. He talks to his old
buddies at Alfa Romeo. And they sort of
work on a deal, not to Enzo's liking.
Really, at the end of the day though,
there's only one correct buyer for
Ferrari, and it's Giani Anelli and the
Fiat Empire. So in 1969, Enzo strikes a
deal with Giani to sell 50% of Ferrari
to Fiat immediately there in 1969
with a secret agreement that triggered
upon Enzo's death, which again he thinks
is imminent, Fiat will acquire another
40%,
taking their stake to 90%.
and 10% of the company will transfer to
Pierro. Once Enzo dies, his plan is to
as much as he can legitimize Pierro,
give him the Ferrari name and give him a
10% stake in the company so that the
bloodline to some extent as much as it
possibly can in that time and place will
continue. And part of the deal with
Fiat, just like he wanted with Ford, is
that Fiat, you can take control of the
road car business, but I'm going to
retain final authority over racing. You
know, I know that my end is near and I
want to spend my last days on this earth
doing what I love, which is running the
racing team. The incredible irony was
the end was nowhere near
>> nowhere near. And actually the world
would change enough between this moment
and when he would eventually pass that
Pierro is able to take over as Pierro
Ferrari son of Enzo.
>> Yes. Yes. Yes.
>> So how many years was it between 1969 is
when the 50% sale to Fiat. He doesn't
pass away until
>> he lives another 20 years. Yeah. 19
years.
>> 1988. Like he lives until I was born.
Yes. Is is where's the sort of the end
of his life. Well, he lives to launch
the F40, which is the last car that Enzo
launches.
>> So, there are two really interesting
things about this deal. One, Enzo
started his career by applying for a job
at Fiat and was turned down.
>> So, that's a total full circle moment
there. The other full circle moment is
that Giani Anelli was one of the very
first Ferrari customers of their road
cars. It's amazing. And when you look at
the actual deal, this this blew my mind,
David, if you do the LRA to US dollar
exchange rate in 1969,
they ended up selling half the company
for a little under $3.5 million, valuing
all of Ferrari at 6.8 million.
>> Wow. Oh my goodness.
>> Enzo really wanted to do this deal. I
think he determined at this point in
history. I'm I've not seen this written
in anywhere, but I'm reading into this,
you know, even Ford thought it was worth
somewhere between 10 and 18 million
earlier in the decade. Enzo basically
had one bidder
>> and he thought, I have no exit path
other than this. This needs to land with
Fiat and whatever the price is, it is.
And so I think Fiat basically got a
steal on this because it needed to stay
in Italy and it needed to go to a strong
thriving car company
>> car company and and family in the
Yellies. Yes.
>> Interesting. Well, all of this just
underscores the most critical point
here. I think this is probably the
moment in history where the false legend
that Enzo only cared about racing and
wasn't a real entrepreneur emerges from.
Because if you look at the fact pattern,
it makes sense here. like he wanted to
spend his last days racing. He did this
not great deal with Fiat. The only
reason this happened is cuz he truly
thought he was about to die. Y
>> and he really did just want to spend his
last days on Earth running the racing
team and he wanted to ensure continuity
for the company and a role for his son
Pierro going forward. That's what
happened here. The state of Ferrari is
kind of grim at this point too. The
factory needed investment. The racing
program was unbelievably expensive.
They're starting to face very real
competition from Lamborghini. They were
founded in 1963 specifically to
challenge Ferrari, at least Lamborghini
Motors, which we'll come back to. And
there was manufacturing headaches
happening because of Italian labor
unrest. And so asking someone to take on
Ferrari's operations was a tall order in
addition to needing to sell.
>> Yes. I'm glad you brought up
Lamborghini. Lamborghini had just
launched the Mirror, the Lamborghini
Mirror at this point in time, which was
a truly excellent car. Y like a better
Ferrari than a Ferrari at the time. So
there was real headwinds in the
business. And this is really why Fiat
and Giani and Yelli had to be the buyer
to store Ferrari through this period.
Now, as we said earlier, fate had plans
other than death for Enzo. Right after
the sale in 1970, Enzo does go into
organ failure and is hospitalized. He's
away from the business for many months,
which really makes it incredibly
fortuitous that he had already done the
deal with Fiat. So, there was management
to keep the company running while Enzo
is away. Miraculously though, he
recovers.
And in the spring of 1971,
Enzo, the grand old man, is back in
Marinelo at the head of Ferrari, but
it's a Ferrari that he barely recognizes
from when he left. Viet has come in. And
this is where he intersects with another
young man who would go on to carry the
legacy and the spirit of Ferrari for
really the next 40 years and into the
next generation and build Ferrari what
it is today
>> with a break in between
>> with a little break in between. Luca de
Monteolo.
But before we tell Luca's story, now is
a great time to thank our longtime
friend of the show, Service Now.
>> Yes, a year ago, nobody was talking
about AI agents. And now, if you are a
large enterprise, you probably have AI
everywhere. Co-pilots and models and
agents all spread across every team,
which sounds great until you realize
none of it is really connected.
>> Exactly. This actually reminds me of
Ferrari on race day. It's not just about
having the fastest car. It's about
coordinating thousands of signals across
tires and fuel and brakes and more, all
in real time to make the right decision.
That is where companies are with AI
right now. Tons of intelligence, but not
a lot of control. And that's the shift.
Intelligence is becoming a commodity.
The hard part now is making all of that
AI actually work together inside a real
organization securely, reliably, and in
sync. That's what Service Now has been
building for over 20 years. Today, they
run the workflows behind more than 85%
of the Fortune 500, which amounts to
over 80 billion workflows a year. So, in
a very real way, a big part of the world
already works with Service Now. And with
their AI control tower, they're giving
companies a single place to manage all
of it. Not just agents, but every AI
system across the business.
>> Yes. So, listeners, it's not just about
AI that thinks. It's about AI that
actually works. If you're thinking about
how AI really operates at scale, go
check out service.com/acquired
and just tell them that Ben and David
sent you. Okay. So, David, Luca de
Montazolo, at least the first act of
Luca. Anyway,
>> of Luca's story. Yes. So in 1971 when
Enzo gets back to the office in Marinelo
after his hospitalization, he tunes in
to a fateful talk radio show where he
discovers a young man who will bring a
breath of fresh air into his life. Luca.
So Monteolo to many of you listening is
already a living legend. I mean, as much
as anyone in Ferrari history besides
Enzo, Luca de Montazallo is Ferrari. And
as I mentioned, I was very lucky to get
to speak with him for a few hours and
research for this episode. And I also
got to watch this great movie about him
that has just been made. It's called
Seeing Red. It's with Chris Harris, the
Top Gear presenter.
>> Yeah. How did you get that? Cuz that's
not out yet.
>> Yeah, it's not distributed outside of
Italy yet, but I got a link to watch it.
It's directed and produced by Manish
Pandy who wrote and produced Senna, the
Senna movie. It's really, really
excellent when it's available in
whatever geography you live in. Very,
very, very much worth watching. So Luca
was born in 1947, the same year that the
modern Ferrari commenced operations.
Very poetic in Bolognia in Italy. But he
moved to Rome as a child where his best
friend growing up is Cristiano Ratti who
is the son of Susanna Anelli, Gianna
Anelli's sister. So Luca grows up almost
like a member of the Anelli family. his
best friend is, you know, one of the
Anelli heirs and Luca comes to develop a
close relationship with Giani and he
would say Giani was like a combination
of an older brother and a father for me.
So in 1970, young Luca moves to New York
City to go off to study international
law at Colia Law School. Around the same
time though, he's also pursuing another
career as a rally car driver.
>> Really?
>> Like a rally car driver? Right. Yes.
Yes. I don't think I've ever seen a
Ferrari rally car.
>> I don't think these two things have ever
intersected. These universes are about
as far apart as you could possibly get.
>> But this is how Luca starts in
motorsport. And so that one fateful day
in 1971, Luca, the rally car driver, is
a guest on this popular call-in talk
radio show and an audience member calls
in to basically accost Luca and chastise
and criticize the entire motorsport
industry. kind of much like the Pope in
1957 starts just laying into Luca this
caller talking about how motor racing is
evil, it's dangerous, it's bad for the
environment, like this is a sport just
for rich people. It has no value in
society. And Luca in passion rises to
the occasion and he gives this
passionate defense of motor racing. He
speaks eloquently, poetically. He shuts
down this caller and really gives this
incredible response. And who happens to
be listening to the program but Enzo
Ferrari.
>> Unbelievable.
>> You just can't make this stuff up. You
really cannot make this up.
>> And he's kind of this perfect person
because if Enzo is gonna take a liking
to him here, I don't know what you're
about to say, but if he's kind of Enzo's
guy, but he's also a pseudo family
member of the Enelli family. It's kind
of this perfect candidate pool of one.
>> Yes. So Enzo calls up the radio station
and he's like, I got to know who this
kid is. I want to get in touch with him.
Who is this rally car driver? And
literally the quote, Luca told me that
this is what Enzo told the radio
station. Enzo said, "This boy has big
balls.
I want to talk to him." Wow.
So Luca and Enzo meet and Enzo says to
him, "I like you. You know, you've got
big balls.
I've been away from my business for too
long and I need some help. What I really
need, I need an assistant, but I need a
spy who can go throughout the
organization and report back to me what
is actually going on in my company.
>> You don't have to ask Luca twice here.
He takes the opportunity and goes to
work for Enzo as his assistant here in
the early '7s. Now, of course, at some
point along the way here, Enzo also
learns of Luca's connection to the
Enelli family, which only makes him even
more attractive. He's like, "Oh, now I
can have a spy at Viad in the Anelli
family, too." So, great.
>> Right. So, the first thing that Enzo
assigns him to do is go figure out
what's going on with sales of the road
car business. Like, go spend some time
with the distribution network.
understand who the clients are.
Understand who the collectors are, who
are the dealers. So, Luca does. He comes
back, he reports, it's not good. As you
were alluding to, Ben, this is a pretty
tough time for Ferrari here in the 70s.
The oil crisis is underway. Any car with
an engine size over 2 L was taxed at an
incremental 40% in Italy and throughout
much of Europe. The whole sports car
industry is basically in the dumps. So
Luca reports all this back to Enzo and
Enzo's like, "Okay, great. You passed
your first test. Things aren't good on
the road car side of the business, but
like at the end of the day, that's
Fiat's problem now." Okay, my real
assignment for you. I want you to go to
the next Formula 1 race. Just go just
observe. Just tell me what you think is
going on with the team. Yep. Now, at
this point here in like 197374,
things are really bad for the Ferrari F1
team. They haven't won a drivers or
constructor's championship for 10 years.
A historic drought for Ferrari. So, Luca
goes, he observes a race and he calls
Enzo up and he says, "Hey, look, I
advise that we just take the cars home
and we don't race them. We have no
chance of winning." O" And Enzo's like,
"Okay, okay. Well, we're not going to
take them home, but we need to get
competitive again. What What are we
going to do? And Luca's like, the issue
is that the sport has changed. This
isn't just an engine sport anymore or
power.
>> We're now in the era of Colin Chapman
and Lotus and
>> aerodynamics.
>> Aerodynamics and the chassis is way more
important. And the Ferrari team is stuck
focused 100% on the engine. Like, we
have no chance of winning. So Enzo says,
"Okay, here's what I'm going to do. I'm
going to make you, Luca, the team
manager of the Ferrari Formula 1 team,
and your mandate is to fix this. I can't
fix. I'm Enzo. I'm like the engine guy.
You go in, you can be the new blood. You
can fix this."
>> And this is amazing because this is
quite the quick promotion for Luca. I
mean, it's like a guy he found that he
brought in to be his assistant. I mean,
he was much more than an assistant, but
that was his title.
>> Yeah. He's not even 30 years old yet.
>> Then suddenly, you're managing the
Formula 1 team, which historically is
the driver that creates all the lust
that sells the cars. Like, this needs to
start working.
>> Yes. Oh, Luca has this great great quote
on the nature of the connection between
Ferrari's performance on the track and
the business selling road cars. He says
there is not a direct correlation
between Ferrari victories on the track
and the number of cars that you can
sell. But if for many years you do not
win, it means that you do not add wood
to the fire of the myth.
>> The myth of Ferrari is based on
competition on cars. In the competition,
you can win or you can lose, but you
cannot only lose. It's so perfect.
>> It is perfect. So Luca comes in as team
manager and he revamps the team. He
brings in great chassis folks. He brings
in great aerodynamic folks. And the most
important thing, he goes out and
recruits Nikki Laua to come in as their
number one driver. And in 1975 with the
new team, the new approach, Luca's
manager, Nikki Laua wins the drivers
championship for Ferrari. And Ferrari
wins the constructor's championship,
ending the 10-year drought. And there is
great rejoicing. Luca is now revered
across Italy. He's not even 30 years old
yet.
>> Wow.
>> As this young hero who has come in and
saved essentially the national team of
Italy from this despairing period.
>> It's amazing. And the funniest thing is
imagining as you describe these
conversations that Luke is off doing
stuff. He comes back and reports to
Enzo.
Where is Enzo's house in all this when
he's sort of like recovering from the
illness and
>> it is around the corner from the Ferrari
factory in Marinelo. It's this farmhouse
and in this exact period actually a
couple years before in 1972 so after the
illness but before the Nicki La F1
victory they actually build a full
racetrack adjacent to Ferrari's
headquarters that goes around Enzo's
house so Enzo can walk out of his
farmhouse and watch them testing the
cars on this I mean truly unbelievable
custom racetrack only for Ferrari's
research in development.
>> Yes. It's incredible. But he needs Luca,
the young guy, to come in and change the
culture. Enzo can't do it. He's too
bound. He's a prisoner of his own myth
and his own legend.
>> Y So, all of this is great. Truly, truly
great. There is rejoicing throughout the
country. But there's just one problem,
which is Enzo's pretty used to Enzo
being the guy, so he starts to get a
little jealous of young Luca. Now, they
always have a great relationship.
There's not like personal animosity
here, but a couple things happen. The
next year in F1, there's the truly crazy
tragedy of Nikki Laua catching on fire.
>> Horrific.
>> Actually catching on fire at the Nurburg
Ring. He's severely burned. He should
have died. He does not die and he wants
to come back and race. He's in
contention for the championship. He ends
up not winning the championship that
year, even through this great act of
bravery to try to come back,
>> but almost does remarkably. If you're
interested in this, go watch the movie
Rush. It's awesome.
>> So good. Enzo, though, remember, he's
very experienced with these race car
drivers and their brushes with death.
Enzo, I think, kind of loses faith in
Laa as a driver after that. He's like,
"Oh, no. He fears death now."
>> Luca still believes in him, though. So,
there's, you know, some conflict there.
Again, it never gets personal. I think
they truly do always kind of love and
respect each other, but all of this
combines
Luca can't stay at Ferrari. So, they
ultimately decide it's better if Luca
leaves the F1 team, leaves day-to-day at
Ferrari, and goes to work for Fiat in
Turan. He remains on the board of
Ferrari, Luca does, but he goes
dayto-day to turret and kind of closer
to the Enelli Empire. And I think Enzo
thinks that he's going to still have a
spy now in Viet with Luca, which maybe
he does, maybe he doesn't. But sadly,
this is another tragedy. This is kind of
the end of the glory for Ferrari in
racing during Enzo's life. They had this
great moment together and for the rest
of Enzo's life there's some ups and
downs but mostly the Ferrari glory on
the racetrack is gone and doesn't return
until Luca returns after Enzo's death
>> much later and there's this glorious
amazing return of Luca and there's this
unbelievable run in Formula 1 and the
Ferrari road car business becomes
stronger than ever but basically none of
it in Enzo's lifetime in fact the last
10 plus years of his life is a real
whimper in the history of Ferrari. The
road car business falls on some real
ugly times.
>> Yeah, it's funny. I I had written in my
script here about the last days of Enzo
Ferrari. They do mostly end with a
whimper, not a bang, but there is one
little bang.
>> There absolutely is.
>> His last car, Ferrari's first official
supercar halo car. There were unofficial
GTO malleigation versions of race cars
and now those things sell at auction for
like 40 50 million or more.
>> One of them sold for 70 million.
>> Yeah. So, those cars existed in Enzo's
past, but there was never a model that
was made just to be a available for
purchase by our best clients, but a true
true supercar until the F40, which
fittingly is the last car that Enzo
makes before he dies in 1988. All right,
so tell us about the F40.
>> Oh, man.
Talk about a death machine.
The F40 was just this incredible raw
beast. If you look at pictures or video
of the interior of the F40,
this is not a luxurious vehicle. There's
no leather. The door handle is a piece
of string. This is the rawest racing
machine in its purest form.
>> It is. Can we throw out everything that
is not absolutely required so we can
have the lightest weight vehicle
possible? And it's crazy. We'll put a
photo of the interior of this cabin in
the email. It is a lot of carbon fiber,
but not like cool looking carbon fiber.
>> No, like raw carbon fiber.
>> This is the absolute minimum that we
could ship. And David, to your point,
this thing, while it is a supercar, the
same way that the F50 and the LaFerrari
and the Enzo and the F80 are supercars,
this is not a luxury supercar. No. When
you're sitting in this car, you're not
sitting in here thinking like I'm a rich
person. You're sitting in here thinking
like
>> this thing is trying to kill me at every
angle.
>> I'm in some sort of test harness.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah. I mean, the videos online of
people crashing Ferrari F40s are tragic,
of course, because they're amazing
machines. But if you get in this car and
you do not know exactly what you're
doing, you're going to crash.
>> It's interesting. The F40 sort of
punctuated
the end of Enzo's life or the end of the
Enzo era in this really interesting way
because it is a supercar the same way
that the modern cars are about
supercars. They're these high
performance machines, but it had every
flaw of the Enzo era of Ferrari. It
wasn't practical. It was purely about
being a race car and made every
compromise possible to get there.
>> Yep. Ferrari will never make another one
like it again. We should say also what
F40 means. It was the 40th anniversary
of the commencing of operations of the
modern Ferrari. So from 1947 to 1987
when the F40 came out. So then the next
year at age 90, the grand old man
does finally pass away. Enzo Ferrari
dies in the summer of 1988.
Poetically, just after his death,
Ferrari in the next Formula 1 Grand Prix
that is run after Enzo's death finishes
one two wins at Monza.
>> Oh my god.
>> The Italian Grand Prix. And that is the
only race that Ferrari won that season.
>> Either the gods were smiling upon Enzo
and death
>> or Bernie Eckleston's fix was in. Yes,
>> the fix was it. Either way, it was
poetic. For the next couple years
though, oh man, the sort of slow motion
disaster at Ferrari continues unabated
on both sides of the business.
>> Real quick before that though, it's
worth highlighting. So the Angelli
family ends up getting the 40%. Pier
ends up getting the 10%. But an
interesting thing to note, the valuation
is extremely different this time around.
>> Yeah, you found detail on this. I
couldn't find it. So, a good friend of
the show, Arvin Navaratnam from Worldly
Partners, uh, scoured all of the old
annual reports that he could find. And
in the 1988 annual report, it reports
the amount of LRA to acquire the
remaining 40% of Ferrari.
>> Oh, I'm so curious. What was it?
>> If you do the exchange rate at that
time, it is 77 million, which valued the
company at $192 million in 1988. much
different than the what was it
>> 67 million in 1969. Yeah. I mean two
things are simultaneously crazy right
here. One how much the valuation
increased from the first time. Second
that Fiat and Yanelli family
acquired 40% of Ferrari for a valuation
of 192 million. Unbelievable.
>> Or that they acquired 90% of it for
what? $72 million.
>> Yeah. in aggregate. Yeah. Wow. Wow. Wow.
>> Or that as recently as 1988, it was
worth only $192 million. I mean, this is
a company today that's worth recently
over $90 billion, but today $55 billion.
Yes. In 1988, $192 million. Well, this
really just highlights how different a
company Ferrari was when Enzo died.
>> Yes. and how much Luca Deontealo
transformed it when he came back and
became the chairman. But for the moment
when Enzo dies, the sort of slow motion
disaster just continues unabated. Fiat's
attempt, their best solution to fixing
the problem of the road car business is
to produce more road cars, which is the
cardinal sin of luxury strategy
management. Just as one example, Ferrari
during these years before Luca comes
back. Ferrari produced 7,000 Tessterosas
over the seven years that the Tessterosa
was in production. Compare that to
Lamborghini. Lamborghini only produced
2,000 Countaches during a period twice
as long. They made Countaches for 16
years.
>> By any normal car company, we're talking
tiny numbers no matter what. But when
you're talking about something rare and
exclusive and so special as what a
Ferrari should be and then you have a
company that you don't even really
consider your competitor over there
making a more exclusive product and
managing it better. That's not a good
situation.
>> No, it is not. And another crazy frame
on that. If you look at the production
of total Ferrari cars, not just one
model, but total cars, in 1982, it was
2,200.
>> If you look in 1991,
that grew all the way up to 4,500.
>> They just kept ramping, ramping,
ramping, and making more cars.
>> Yeah. Not the right fix.
>> Not the right fix. So you mentioned
1991, that was the last year of this
interregnum period before Luca comes
back. It's so bad. Demand has evaporated
so much for Ferraris that for the first
time in history, cars are going unsold.
They have to furlow the factory workers
and shut down the factory. And so when
it comes to this, Giani Anelli finally
calls up Luca and says, "It's time for
you to return. We need you to come back.
We are quote putting Ferrari in your
hands." And Luca Deontallo returns to
become chairman of Ferrari. We should
note it's going to be important here in
a minute. In Italy, chairman of the
company is actually the most important
and powerful title, and the CEO reports
to the chairman. So, at this point, when
Giani calls Luca back, he's been gone
from the day-to-day at Ferrari for
almost 15 years. After Ferrari, he did a
short stint at Fiat and then he stayed
in the Anelli Empire. He became CEO of
the beverage company Chinszano, which is
another Enelli family company. And so he
had gained CEO experience. And then the
reason that Luca couldn't come back to
take over Ferrari as soon as Enzo died
was he had become the organizer and
president of the Italia 90 World Cup. So
the World Cup in 1990 was in Italy and
Luca organized the whole thing and
there's great stories associated with
that. My favorite is that he
>> convened for the sort of final evening
ceremony of the World Cup for the first
time the three teners. the three teners
didn't exist until the World Cup. And
the way he convinced Pavarati to join
because he was the big star he didn't
want to join was he gave him an F40
and thus the three teners were born.
>> That is awesome.
>> So once the World Cup is over, Johnny's
like, "Okay, enough messing around. You
got to come back fix this." M.
>> So, the first thing Monteolo does when
he knows he's going to return to take
over Ferrari after Enzo, he goes and he
buys a 348, the flagship Ferrari sports
car at the time, just to sort of see the
state of things. Like, how bad was it
really? I'm going to go buy my own 348
and test it out. And Luca's actual quote
on this is the Ferrari 348 was a
car. It was the worst car we ever made.
Everything was missing. It had no
personality. It had no technology. It
wasn't state-of-the-art and anything. It
had no power. It was all missing. He
talks about when he was driving it, he
would pull up to stop lights and try and
race the other cars off the line and see
how it would perform. You know, kind of
drag race at stoplights. He was like, "I
was getting beaten off the line by
Volkswagen Gulfs
>> in a Ferrari." Oh, brutal.
>> What do you attribute this to? What?
Like the Ferrari has deteriorated. It's
fallen apart in this era. The the cars
have no personality, but they also have
no performance and they're impractical
and they're overmaking them and no one
wants them. What's wrong? Like, why have
the wheels come off the bus here?
>> It was Fiat. It was all they knew how to
do. They came in of like, oh, the the
way we can fix this is we increase
production. We'll cut cost. So, let's
share some parts with Fiat cars. You
know, Ferrari road cars went from being
the same thing built by the same people
as the racing cars, as the F1 cars and
the Le Man cars in the same factory to
in this period with Fiat control,
they're really not the same thing. You
know, these are
>> it's would be too far of a stretch to
say they were repurposed Fiats, but
>> they had lost that true connection to
race machines. Hm.
>> And so Luca comes back and says, "We got
to fix this." So at the time, the
Japanese sports car industry was on the
rise. And all the car enthusiasts were
saying, "Ferrari's dead. The Italian car
makers are dead. The Japanese have taken
over." Luca has the test drivers at
Ferrari go out and buy a Honda NSX and
do like his own version of the Pepsi
challenge. like go out there, drive the
NSX as hard as you can around the test
track, drive our cars, drive the 348 as
hard as you can around the test track,
and they come back and they're like,
"Yeah, I mean, there's no competition."
The NSX just blows us away. Wow. I mean,
how sad is that? It's a Honda. A Honda.
That's completely lost to history today.
You don't hear anyone talking about
Ferrari is this sort of like untouchable
apex brand that it's hard to imagine
that happening just you know as recently
as the early '90s
>> right I mean it's one thing if
Lamborghini is beating them I mean
that's bad that's really bad but if
Honda is making a better sports car than
Ferrari there's a real real problem yeah
so how's Luca going to turn this around
he comes up with three priorities
the team the technology and the myth.
>> So, number one, the team. The Formula 1
team. We have to fix the Formula 1 team.
Going back to his great quote, you know,
there's not a direct correlation between
victories on the track and cars that you
can sell. But the team feeds the myth.
If you don't add wood to the fire of
victories on the track, the flame of the
myth will die. You cannot only lose.
>> Yep. So, the team hadn't won a
championship since 1979. Luca goes out
and recruits
the dream team. I think the greatest set
of F1 team members that had ever existed
in history. Jean Todd, team principal,
Ross Braun, race engineer,
Michael Schemacher,
Ferrari number one driver. And it takes
a couple years for Luca and the team to
turn this around, but this is just
absolute domination that they unleash on
the field. By the end of the decade,
there would be five straight years, 2000
to 2004, where Michael Schumacher won
every single driver's championship five
years in a row, and Ferrari won every
single constructor's championship five
years in a row.
>> As we talked about on the F1 episode, it
it was a problem for Formula 1. The
sport became too boring because Ferrari
always won. Yeah.
>> In total, under Montazelo's tenure,
Ferrari wins 19
drivers and constructors championships,
which is more than Enzo.
>> That's amazing.
>> It's incredible how he turned the team
around just like he did back as Enzo's
assistant back in the day.
>> All right, then the technology.
>> The technology. The cars.
We can't have a Honda NSX outclassing a
Ferrari. Ferraris are about our heritage
and our myth, but they are also about
looking ahead. We can't be selling 250s
repainted for the modern era.
>> Yeah. And this is really where the
feelings about technology change where
Ferrari went from a late adopter of
technology when it's sort of proven to
really pushing the bleeding edge. And
today, Ferrari spends a good amount more
on R&D as a percentage of their revenue
than most other car companies. It's
become sort of a a signature of the
company.
>> Yep. And this absolutely was a hallmark
of Montlo's turnaround. Enzo didn't
really care that much about technology.
>> That's interesting. Yeah.
>> Yeah. So, first thing they do, we got to
fix the 348, the flagship sports car.
So, they revise it. They do some stop
gaps, but ultimately as soon as
possible, they kill it and replace it
with the 355,
which was just a glorious car. And this
just checked every box. Amazingly, it
was modestly priced. So, it was a
$127,000.
So, modest by Ferrari's standards.
Anyway, it was much more sort of
userfriendly to drive. It actually made
sense if you weren't a track car driver
to drive this car. It was really the
workhorse of the turnaround and by 1997
it accounted for 70% of sales. Wow. Wow.
The 355 I would put it in the category
of like a Rolex Submariner of this thing
that is a signature of the brand is
perfect product market fit is priced
perfectly and just deeply understands
why the customer is buying it.
>> Yep. The other thing to note before they
launched the 355 is Luca massively cut
production. So I mentioned that in 1991
Ferrari had made 4500 cars which is just
this giant inflation. By 1993, just 2
years later, Luca brought this down to
2,300.
So cut it almost in half in those two
years. And production would start
climbing again. You know, as I
mentioned, the 355 was really
wellreceived and they started really
building up their back order list again.
But interestingly, it would not eclipse
that 1991 peak of 45,500 cars again
until 2006,
a full 15 years later.
>> Yeah, we need to not just fix the myth
of Ferrari, but we need to protect it.
And this was Luca's third and most
important priority, the myth. Luca came
from a very different background and
life experience than Enzo. Luca is the
one who realized that Ferrari is a
luxury company. To Enzo, Ferrari was a
racing company that sold a connection to
that to its clients. And Enzo was a
marketing genius and he came up with the
prancing horse and the red and the myth
of Enzo. But you couldn't talk to Enzo
about how Hermes was managing its
business. You know, Enzo had no idea
what Jean Louie Duma was doing over in
Paris. Luca knew exactly what Jean Louie
Duma was doing over in Paris. Luca is
the one who institutes weightless.
>> Luca is the one who institutes
presentation ceremonies when your car is
delivered. Luca is the one who
institutes custom luxury leather luggage
that comes perfectly fitted to your
Ferrari.
Luca institutes the luxury strategy at
>> Where did Luca come up with this
strategy? Like, did he adopt the luxury
strategy from somewhere else? Did he
invent it from Whole Cloth?
>> I think it's just he comes from such a
different background and world
experience than Enzo. Enzo didn't know a
Birkin from a Coach bag,
>> right? He grew up in Modna.
>> He grew up in Mona. And then after
Dino's death, he never gets on an
airplane again. He doesn't leave this
one region of Italy. Whereas Luca has
lived all over the world. He's run the
Italian cup. He's been CEO of an
alcoholic beverages company. He knows
all the luxury families. He knows all
the luxury companies and he studies what
they do.
>> Yeah, it's interesting. That makes total
sense. The other big piece of his
strategy is anytime you see a Ferrari,
it needs to scream Ferrari at you. And
in a way that was really exemplified by
the 355.
It looked like all the cool classic
Ferraris and the race cars, but it was
much easier to drive. So there should be
sort of a unification between the stuff
we're selling to people and the race
cars.
>> Yes, this was another key understanding
of Lucas. These cars needed to be
drivable. In Enzo's day, you could get
away with the excuse of, "Yeah, these
cars aren't really going to function on
the road because they truly are intended
to be race cars. By the 1990s into the
2000s, that's not going to fly anymore.
The people who are the clients who are
buying these cars, they want to be able
to drive them on the streets." Yep. He
does a handful of other tactics that I
would say set the company up for success
in the short term, but add risk in the
long term. And there's a big need to I
mean Ferrari was operating in the red
when he came in. They generated losses
like real income statement losses from
1992 to 1994. And by 96 they were back
to break even and and by 97 they were
profitable. But I would say all the ways
to generate profits were not the best
long-term solution and it took them time
and a lot of effort to dig out of that
hole. One of which was licensing the
brand for merchandise.
>> Yes. Now, there's a pro and a con here,
but yes, I thought that's where you were
going to go with this.
>> Yeah. So, there were some smart things.
Licensing the brand to put on luxury
goods and some sportsware. They even
started licensing it for toys. And when
you're licensing the brand, that's
basically 100% margin. I mean, it drops
straight to the bottom line. So, when
you're dire straits, it's it's really
good. And so it has obvious allure, but
they put the prancing horse on some real
garbage over time. My favorite is by
2009, so you know, this is a full 15
years later, they put the prancing horse
on an Acer netbook.
>> Yes. Yes.
>> Remember netbooks, David?
>> Oh, yeah. I was wondering if you were
going to find this.
>> Just so destructive to their brand. It's
the apex luxury brand of cars. like one
of the greatest brands in the entire
world and they have licensed it to this
like underclocked plastic little piece
of crap computer that is like the
microcosm of brand destruction like the
reason to resist the heroine of brand
licensing.
>> Yes, the Acer laptop was a real low
point,
>> but there's a lot of crap that it's on.
>> There's a lot of crap that there's on.
Now, there is some nuance here. If we
were talking about Louis Vuitton or
Hermes or PC Philippe or Rolex,
this would be all bad. There would be no
good reason besides easy profit dollars
to do this. Ferrari is
a different thing.
>> Yes,
>> it is an apex luxury brand
unquestionably in the same way as all of
those companies. But unlike those
companies, it also has a couple hundred
million raid fans.
that it needs to serve.
And also unlike those other companies,
there's not actually a tension there.
Ferrari clients and Ferrari collectors
aren't upset by the fact that Ferrari
has a couple hundred million, you know,
commoner fans out there. In fact,
they're happy about it,
>> right? Ferrari is both a luxury brand
and a giant international sports team.
>> Yes. Yes. Exactly. They always talk
about the tosi, you know, the hundreds
of millions of people who are just fans
of the brand and the spirit and the
team.
>> Yep. Yeah. Hermes doesn't have a couple
hundred million teenage girls around the
globe that have posters of Birkkins on
their walls that they have to please,
>> right? Ferrari is Hermes and Manchester
United smashed together.
>> Yes. Yes.
>> Yeah. And that makes it super different.
So I guess to your point that does
validate the licensing their brand for
merchandise strategy much more. Hey
look, it doesn't validate the uh you
know Acer netbook but uh there is like
some actual justification to the
activity.
>> Yeah.
>> So manufacturing should we talk about
how that changes under Luca's tenure?
>> Yeah. So I know a lot about
manufacturing today. Did Luca really
bring Ferrari's current manufacturing to
life?
>> I think so. Or at least he started it.
It was really important to him that the
factories be first rate. So he brought
in great architects to redesign the
factories. And this is when if you look
at video or photos of Ferrari factories
today, they have trees in them. He
brought in the trees.
>> Yeah, they're absolutely beautiful.
We'll link to some factory tours in the
show notes. I think my favorite thing
about Ferrari is the manufacturing
process. And it's both because of how
cool it is from a nerdy perspective, but
also the business model that enables for
them. So after 1994, Ferrari does not
have a stock of cars. They're not just
sitting there at dealerships. They're
not just sitting there at the factory.
They don't manufacture them and then
find buyers. It's the other way around.
So for every single car, they only start
manufacturing it after you order and you
customize it. And it's important to know
that by this point in history, every
Ferrari is unique. There's so much
customization that starts happening that
every one that rolls off the lineup is
actually its own custom car. I mean,
maybe just a little detail here or there
is different, but you will not find two
that are identical. Yep.
>> So, Ferrari factories are vertically
integrated to the nth degree. Most car
manufacturers these days are systems
integrators. Kind of lame. They're just
buying from a network of thousands of
companies that make common parts that
basically go in all of our cars as
contracts to the big brands. And yes,
the brands do some specification and
then they take whatever it is some long
time frame, 5 to 10 years, to actually
build out the full supply chain, source
the thousands of parts from all the
suppliers and then integrate them into a
car. Not Ferrari. They have trucks that
roll up to the factory with raw ingots
of aluminum and they are casting entire
engines themselves right there in
Marinelo. Everything happens on one plot
of land. They build engine molds out of
sand. They have 700° C furnaces and they
operate an entire foundry right there on
site. They do the same thing for body
panel work and stitching the seats and
more.
>> Yes, it it really reminds me of Rolex in
this regard. And there's another
dimension that it's different from just
about every other car manufacturer out
there. Most other car companies, even
the Porsches and the Audi's and the
Lamborghinis,
a lot of the models that they're making
are based on shared platforms. So, like
we'll get into this more toward the end
of the episode here, but the Lamborghini
Urus, the Lamborghini SUV, that is the
same platform as the Porsche Cayenne,
which is the same platform as the
Volkswagen Tore. When you buy a
Lamborghini Urus, you are buying a car
that is essentially a Volkswagen TOG
>> or an Audi Q8. Is that right?
>> One of the Q's. Yeah. No Ferrari shares
a platform with any other car.
>> But you're right. When you're a big
family of brands like this, you are
looking for economies of scale and ways
to share more across your line. And
you're right, not Ferrari, it's the
complete opposite.
>> And some of this was starting to creep
in in the last years of Enzo and the
interregnum period when Fiat was taking
control. Like there were some Fiat parts
and switches that were making their way
into Ferraris. And Luca stops all of
this. He's like, "No, no, no. The only
things that go into Ferraris are
Ferraris. It's what makes us different.
Yes. And because everything is so
customizable, like we were talking
about, every single one that rolls off
the line is unique. They have left their
manufacturing process to be very
flexible and manual. They can make any
car on any line. There's humans doing
manual work at every station except for
one, and that one is where they affix
the windshield cuz you for safety
reasons don't want to have people doing
that. But it is crazy and unheard of
across the car industry to be able to
make any car on any manufacturing line.
Now you might say, well that's really
inefficient and it is. I mean they they
don't invest in making a automated
production line that can easily make
lots of cars.
>> Efficiency is not the point for Ferrari,
>> right? They would make for a terrible
scaled car company. Ferrari can operate
on a much shorter time scale between
design and actually getting a car out to
customers since there's less overhead in
getting started. And it is it's a it's a
double-edged sword. You would never want
to do a 100,000 cars a year with the
Ferrari model. In fact, you you barely
want to be doing 14,000. But the pro is
that they can be really iterative and
really responsive to new ideas. They
could change their engine casting spec
without involving a supplier and asking
them to do a rebuild of something. And
they can also get learnings from their
F1 team quickly into cars since it's
right across the street. Yep. I think
this is like one of the interesting
nerdy business model characteristics of
the
pros that come from a manufacturing
process that sort of doesn't invest in
overhead and doesn't allow for the
cheapest incremental marginal car to
roll off the line. It's more about how
do we maintain sort of the most
flexibility at any given point cuz we're
selling expensive cars and we've got the
margin to absorb it. Well, really this
is how bespoke handmade craftsmanship
applies to a modern automobile company.
You know, it's the same dynamic as the
other luxury companies as Hermes or you
know, you think Hermes is investing in
efficiencies in their factories like
hell no.
>> Right? And part of what you are buying,
if you are interested in buying a
Ferrari, especially let's say you came
into this, you didn't want a Ferrari,
you leave this episode, you're like
actually I do kind of want a Ferrari.
Part of what you are buying is the lore
that I just shared. You kind of like the
fact that this is a yeah there's robots
but like a pseudo handmade bespoke
inefficient manufacturing process to
make it. It's wrapped up in the value
proposition.
>> There is a team of artisans and experts
aided by technology that is making my
Ferrari.
>> Yes, that's exactly right.
>> Yeah, it's super cool. So that's
manufacturing. We've talked about Luca's
embracing of the luxury strategy for
Ferrari. Let's talk about markets and
growth. Yes.
>> And international.
>> Yes. So, when we're talking about caps
on the number of cars they create, it's
not that you can't produce any more
units without diluting your brand. It's
that you can't sell any more units into
your current market,
>> correct?
>> Without diluting your brand. New markets
are perfectly allowed as long as it
doesn't change the perception in the
current markets that oh no, there's
suddenly lots of Ferraris zooming around
the streets and geographic segmentation
can be a great luxury strategy. So he
goes to start selling in China
meaningfully for the first time and the
timing couldn't have been better since
in Europe it was becoming less
fashionable to display your wealth.
China. It was perfectly
>> very fashionable,
>> extremely fashionable.
>> And this is a strategy that they then
continued to run. Anytime a new
geography sort of came up in global
wealth or disposable income or was okay
with becoming flashier, then suddenly
the there's a whole new area where you
can sell your Ferraris without changing
perception in existing markets.
>> Yes. And there's another subtle point
here that applies
very specifically to Ferrari. They make
so few cars and sell so few cars to a
given geography that it really is a
special experience every time you even
see one on the road.
>> Yep.
>> And it's really important not to dilute
that. Owning a Ferrari is a truly rare
and special experience. But even just
seeing one, even just being next to one
should be a rare experience. The minute
that that stops being rare, part of the
myth dies.
>> The funniest thing is since a large
number of Ferraris are owned by people
with 10, 20, 30 Ferraris, they actually
can soak up a lot of the units into
garages that you never see anyway.
>> Yes. Yeah. So if you're Ferrari and
you're trying to manage scarcity, you
sort of have an incentive to continue
selling to the same person over and over
and over because it is a way to generate
a sale without having the problem of a
Ferrari out on the streets feeling
commonplace.
>> Yes. Now there is one other related
thing that Ferrari takes on during this
time which is a lot of Ferrari clients
particularly American clients
really
want a family Ferrari. They've got more
use cases in their life for automobiles
than Ferraris give them opportunity to
use it for. You mean to tell me that a
45year-old man who really really wants
to be out on the track or sort of
envisions himself out on the track
actually has most of his time where he
can't be on the track but he wants to
feel awesome and fast and risking his
life and associate with a brand kind of
like Ferrari but gosh that's actually
just not the reality of his life these
days.
>> Right. Right. He might need to drive his
kids to school or he might need to be
driven by your chauffeur to an important
business meeting.
Really, you would like a four-door
Ferrari for that.
>> David, stop.
>> I know. I know. Disgusting. I know.
Well, it is disgusting. And that is why
during this era, Ferrari takes on the
Maserati brand under its wing. So, the
Maserati brothers that we referenced
earlier in the episode, that company
after their ownership had gone through a
whole series of ownership changes and
the brand had had its ups and downs over
the years. It ends up in the hands of
Fiat. And in the late 90s, Fiat says,
"Why don't we give Maserati management
over to Ferrari?" And then we can, you
know, have this connection between the
Ferraris and the Maseratis. And we can
have models that are Maseratis that are
not Ferraris. These are not Ferraris,
but there is a connection. And you know,
we're happy to sell you a Quattroporte
if you want it or a Gran Turismo if you
want it. And uh that's what they do. And
so this is when the Quattapporte, the
Maserati Quattaporte launches in America
>> and great demand. Unfortunately, in the
beginning, it was not a very good car.
It took him a few years to uh iron the
kinks out, at least on the reliability
front. But it's a brilliant brand
strategy. It's almost like Rolex and
Tutor. A tutor is never going to be a
Rolex, but you can have a great use case
for a tutor.
>> I was going to make that connection. I
was thinking about it, but I don't think
I mean Maseratis are not made in
Marinelo, right?
>> No, they're not. So Ferrari gets the
sort of market intelligence of
what happens when we launch a Maserati
in a market and kind of learnings from
customers, but it's not like there's
manufacturing synergies or onampus
learnings from prototyping new things. I
think they're pretty separate in their
sort of R&D. Yes. So they showed great
restraint in never launching a Fiat
Ferrari car or standardizing on
platforms the way that the Volkswagen
Group does. Yeah. I think remarkably
Ferrari has had the soul of a standalone
company even though it was for a very
long period of time 90% owned by Fiat.
>> Yep. And Luca is a huge part of that as
is Pierro too. Y him having the 10%
ownership stake in place on the board
keeps that continuity to Enzo and the
Ferrari family even in a 10% minority
ownership way in the company.
>> Yep. Well, speaking of Ferrari
also being part of the Fiat and Anelli
empire, something pretty big is about to
change here as we enter the early 2000s,
which is Giani Anelli passes away. And
all of a sudden, the Fiat Empire is now
in crisis. But before we tell the story
of what happens next there and how it
incredibly ends up with the IPO of
Ferrari.
Now is a great time to tell you about
one of our favorite companies, Statsig.
>> Yes. So listeners, as we've been talking
about all episode, Ferrari builds cars
designed for speed and precision. These
are incredibly powerful machines, but
every component is also engineered so
the car performs predictably even when
you're pushing it to the limit. And you
know what? That is a great metaphor for
modern software development.
Teams today can ship faster than ever,
especially teams building with AI coding
tools. But when you're moving so
quickly, the challenge becomes knowing
which changes actually improved the
product. Because when you go faster, you
also increase the risk of unintended
consequences. And that is especially
true when AI is involved. LLMs of course
introduce non-determinism into the
product experience. So the same input
doesn't always produce the same output.
Small changes to prompts or models or
user experience can actually have
surprisingly large downstream effects.
You can learn a bit from offline evals,
but the real signal comes from real
users. Yep. And that is where stats
comes in. Stats gives product teams the
control systems for fast product
development, experimentation, feature
flags, and product analytics all in one
place. Teams can ship quickly, roll out
changes safely, and measure how those
changes actually impact users with a
much tighter learning loop. Statsig lets
you keep moving Ferrari level fast while
uh making sure that what you're doing
actually does make the product better.
So, if you want to ship fast and know
what's actually working, go to
statsig.com/acquired
to get started. So, in 2003, Johnny
Anelli dies. Tragically, the logical
heirs to the Anelli Empire in the Next
Generation
had also already died young.
>> So, when Giani dies in 2003, his brother
Ombberto takes over, but he only lives
for another year. and then he passes
away in 2004. When this happens, the
empire is in chaos. Meanwhile, the fiat
business is really struggling. Sales
have been falling off a cliff. The
company has a mountain of debt and the
share price is like trending towards
scraping the bottom here. M
>> so the last surviving Annelli of Giani
and Alberto's generation is Susanna,
mother of Luca's best friend growing up.
She calls Luca after Alberto dies and
asks him to take over as Fiat chairman
and replace Giani and Alberto in
addition to Ferrari. So Luca will stay
at Ferrari, but he will now come and
serve the Anellis as sort of a steward
and a bridge to the next generation.
while they get the house in order and
hopefully try to save Fiat along the
way.
>> So, he's chairman of the parent company.
>> He's now chairman of Fiat and Ferrari,
>> which they own 90% of.
>> Yes. And at the same time, the chosen
next heir in the generation below in the
Anelli family is a man named John Elcan,
who you might have heard of today. He's
a celebrated investor and head of Exor,
the publicly traded holding company,
which is the Enelli family holding
company. He's 27 years old at this point
in time, though. He's a kid. He's like
Luca back in the day when Enzo tapped
him to take over Ferrari. Yep. So Luca
and John Elcan have to work together to
try to save Fiat. So the first thing
they do is they turn to Sergio Marion
who is a turnaround expert and financial
engineer extraordinaire who has been CEO
of SGS which is a Swiss consumer
products testing company that is also
part of the Annelli family investment
empire and he's completely turned around
SGS and saved the company there and they
tap him to come in and help them do the
same thing with Fiat. So he joins as CEO
in 2004 with Luca as chairman and John
Elen as the Anelli family
representative,
>> which it's interesting to note here, the
Anelli family empire is larger than just
Fiat.
>> Yes. And this is how they really differ
from like Ford and the Ford family. The
Ford family was always focused on the
Ford Motor Company. The Anelli family,
Fiat was the crown jewel, but they
invested in and built many businesses
over the years throughout the
generations. since they really
diversified out of just one company.
>> Yep. So, the three of them together
miraculously
turn around Fiat and save it from the
Abyss through the combination of a
couple things. First, they launch the
smash hit new Fiat 500, the mass market
platform, the city car for Europe. There
was some precedent for this earlier.
Volkswagen had relaunched the Beetle in
1997 and so that was some of the
inspiration. But the Fiat 500 truly was
an amazing success.
>> Yeah. You've seen this car many times.
>> Yes. And especially in Europe. Like it's
it was popular in the US, but if you
live in Europe, you saw the Fiat 500 all
over cities throughout Europe. It sells
a million units in five years. It wins
the 2008 European Car of the Year award.
It's truly truly a special car that
saves the company.
>> I got to say, it's so funny that we feel
the need here on the Ferrari episode to
extol the virtues of the Fiat 500. Uh,
but it ends up becoming actually very
important and path dependent to
Ferrari's trajectory from here and why a
few things happen to Ferrari. And it was
designed by a man named Frank Stevenson
who had been Luca's in-house design guy
at Ferrari when Luka was just at
Ferrari. So there's a Ferrari connection
and lineage there that gets pushed up to
the FIA 500.
>> Now the other thing that happens and
this is all Sergio is doing.
>> He totally restructured the operations
at Fiat. He was like an efficiency and
cost cutting specialist. And at a
company like Fiat, that actually is like
really really important.
>> The other thing he did is Fiat had a
ill- fated partnership with GM with
General Motors. Sergio gets them out of
the partnership and engineers GM paying
$2 billion to Fiat in order to end the
partnership. And I think without that $2
billion, the company almost certainly
would have died.
>> Wow. He is a magician.
>> He really is a magician. So Sergio,
Luca, and John Elen come into Fiat in
2004. Within 2 years, they have returned
the company to profitability. They've
got a handle on the debt. 2007, the Fiat
500 comes out. It's a massive success.
2008 hits, the financial crisis.
All of the US car companies are in
really bad shape. Man, it's crazy that
Fiat just barely got their house in
order in time.
>> Just barely.
>> Otherwise, they could have been down
with the rest of the global economy.
>> Well, Sergio says, "We can play offense
here."
>> So, he engineers a partnership with
Chrysler, which had been wise
nationalized, taken over by the US
government at this point in time.
>> Right? They were in the worst of the
positions of Ford, GM, and Chrysler,
>> the big three automakers in the US. Yes.
So, they engineer a partnership in 2008,
Sergio does with Chrysler, and then
fully acquires the company in 2014,
>> and that creates FCA, Fiat Chrysler
Automobiles,
>> FCA, and basically for free. Fiat paid
either zero or almost zero in sort of
equity value for Chrysler. Wow. Yeah, it
truly is amazing what they did and saved
the company too. I mean, Chrysler and
Dodge and Jeep and all of its brands are
a thing today and part of Stalantis
today because of what Fiat and Sergio
did during the financial crisis.
>> And Stellantis is the name for the
merger between Fiat Chrysler Automobiles
and
>> Pujo.
>> Pujo. Okay.
>> The French company.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. One of those French car companies
that, you know, we're not going to make
an episode about.
So, as everything is stabilizing at Fiat
and returning to success in 2010, Luca
steps down from the Fiat chairmanship
and returns solely full-time to Ferrari.
John Elen assumes the Fiat chairmanship
then he's now ready to, you know, be the
stored and heir of the Enelli family and
work with Sergio and running the Fiat
Empire. But
there is one cost
to
taking over Chrysler, which was that in
doing so, Fiat had to assume Chrysler's
debt,
>> including about $5.5 billion that it
owed the US and Canadian governments for
the bailout. So when this happens, the
combined debt load for FCA, Fiat
Chrysler Automobiles, balloons up to
over 11 billion. Fiat announces to Wall
Street as part of the merger, though.
Sergio does, hey, we've got a plan and
we are going to reduce that from over 11
billion to 1 billion or less over the
next four years by 2018.
>> So they are forecasting a lot of cash
flow that hey, this business is going to
be great, super profitable. we're going
to eliminate 10 billion dollars of debt.
>> They are forecasting a lot of debt
reduction. Some of that will come from
cash flow. Okay?
>> And some of that might come from other
places.
>> So Sergio needs, you know, a lot of cash
to meet his promise to Wall Street and
pay down the debt. Where's an easy place
to find it? He's going to IPO
Ferrari and use the proceeds to help pay
down the Fiat Chrysler debt. Now, we
should note through all of this, if you
couldn't already foresee it, there was a
huge conflict and power struggle brewing
between Luca and Sergio. These two guys
were both incredible
auto company operators, but like cut
from totally different cloths.
>> Yeah. Luca is the ultimate car guy. He's
a great businessman and he's a great
executor of the luxury strategy for
Ferrari, but in his mind, in his heart,
the cars always have to come first. The
great business decisions come out of the
great car decisions.
Sergio, on the other hand, is not a car
guy. He came from a consumer products
testing company. He is a financial
engineer and an empire builder. And
actually the great tragedy to this act
of Ferrari is it could have been a
beautiful partnership between the two of
them and was truly was. They save Fiat
together but ultimately Luca and Sergio
are not going to be able to coexist and
share power within the same structure.
And for a while Luca going back to just
Ferrari
>> makes it work
>> felt like it was it it was the solution
that made sense. His passion was
Ferrari. his history was there. He could
go back to running it and be very happy
and Sergio could leave it alone and
continue running the Fiat Empire. But
once Sergio needs the cash to pay down
the Chrysler debt and turns to Ferrari,
they're on a collision course because
>> IPOing Ferrari is like completely
anathema to Luca's way of being.
Becoming a public company means you got
to deliver consistent, predictable
growth, which means hitting a drum beat
of shipping more cars, making more
models, adding more clients, raising
prices. It's not like Luca doesn't want
to do these things in a vacuum, but he
wants to do these things very
thoughtfully and over an extended period
of time, not on a Wall Street calendar.
>> And to have flexibility.
>> Yes. not opposed to any of those things,
just the way that you and I aren't
opposed to doing things with Acquire,
but we don't want to be locked in and
committed. You want some organicness to
how you run the business. You want the
products to be these living, breathing
things. You want to be able to rapidly
change your mind in the face of new
market conditions.
>> Yep. I mean, hell, one of Luca's very
first actions when he came back to
Ferrari after Enzo's death was to cut
production by half.
>> Right. Right. Can you imagine doing that
as a publicly traded company?
>> Yeah. Making announce to Wall Street
like, "Oh, hey, we think the right thing
to do next year is to cut our production
by half. Hope you're with us."
>> Now, interestingly, at first, yes,
they're publicly traded, but don't they
only float 10% of Fiat's 90%.
>> Yeah. Well, so here's what happens.
Thanks to the Chrysler acquisition, it's
not an option not to pay down the debt.
The company, Fiat, the Empire, has to
get the money. So the choice is kind of
made for them. They have to side with
Sergio
>> because they have to go public and he's
kind of the guy to run it as a public
company.
>> I mean taking Ferrari public is part of
the plan of how this whole thing is
going to work.
>> Yeah. Do you think Luca was not a public
company CEO? I think Luca probably had
zero interest in taking Ferrari public
and I think he had even less than zero
interest in using proceeds from the
Ferrari IPO and the other financial
engineering that we're about to talk
about to save Chrysler and Fiat. Luca
did not care about any of that. Whereas
in the other side, Sergio is kind of
exactly the guy you would want to manage
the street, to look for all the ways
that the Ferrari business is quote
unquote unoptimized to realize the full
value of the asset. He's like the sort
of leader that investors salivate over.
>> Yes. Yes. So, in September 2014, Sergio
unceremoniously fires Luca as chairman
of Ferrari. The pretext is that the
Ferrari F1 team has performed poorly in
recent years, but
>> which was true.
>> I mean, was true, but like for God's
sakes, just a few years earlier, Luca
had engineered, you know, the greatest
dynasty in Formula 1 history with
Schumacher and Braun and Todd and like,
you know, everybody knows what's really
going on here. Also, part of the reason
that the Ferrari Formula 1 team wasn't
performing well at this point in time
was that Formula 1 had switched to
hybrid powertrains and Fiat never
developed hybrid technology. So, Ferrari
didn't have anywhere to turn to to get a
head start like some of the other
manufacturers that could turn to hybrid
technology. So, it was going to take a
while for Ferrari no matter what. At the
end of the day though, it's it's sad
like this is not how Luca's time at
Ferrari should have ended. So Bernie
Eckleston, you know, the
>> Bernie F1 empressario, who Luca did very
much not always see eye to eye with,
gives a quote to the press when Luca is
fired that sums it up better than I can.
Bernie says, "Luca leaving is for me the
same as Mr. Enzo dying. He has become
Ferrari. You see him, Luca. You see
Ferrari. You don't see anything else.
You don't see Luca. M
>> the context that you need to know for
this quote that makes it even more
impactful is if you listen to our F1
episode, you know that there was the FOD
breakaway attempt of the group of teams
that just a few years before this had
tried to bust Bernie's hold on F1 and
break away and start a rival formula
racing league. That was led by Luca.
>> Oh wow. Luca was like Bernie's arch
adversary just a few years earlier.
>> And so for Bernie to be this cordial
>> and here's Bernie paying tribute to him
like this.
>> Yeah.
>> So with Luca gone the path is cleared to
IPO Ferrari. And in 2015, Fiat and
Sergio float, as you said, Ben, 10% of
their 90% ownership stake in Ferrari on
the New York Stock Exchange for an
initial total market cap of Ferrari of
9.8 billion, which raises just under a
billion dollars in cash that Fiat uses
to pay down the debt. So 2015, Ferrari
publicly traded worth $10 billion. That
is up from the 192 million figure that
we had talked about back in 1988.
>> Right.
But still nowhere near the heights that
it would reach in the years to come.
>> But that is Luca's legacy. That delta
>> that totally that is turning Ferrari
into a real business there.
>> Yep.
>> So a billion dollars in cash proceeds
from the equity sale in the IPO.
>> That that helps that that contributes to
the total 10 billion that you need to
reduce your debt by. Yeah. To go from 11
down to one.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, it helps, but it's not a lot.
Well, Sergio had another uh
>> this one is ridiculous.
>> Financial engineering coup up his sleeve
as part of the spin-off of Ferrari and
the whole transaction. They effectively
transfer
another $3.2 billion in Fiat Chrysler
debt to Ferrari. So in total, Fiat
Chrysler out of this transaction gets
almost $4 billion in debt reduction.
That'll make a dent.
>> That'll make a dent.
>> That'll make a real dent.
>> The interesting thing is it was
perfectly fine to do this because
Ferrari turns into a great great
business that is perfectly capable of
paying down all that debt that was just
transferred to them.
>> Yes. Yes. Absolutely. You know, we're
sort of telling the story from Luca's
side here. From Sergio's side, this all
makes total sense, right? There was very
little risk involved in this
transaction,
>> right? It's actually quite genius,
>> right? It helped Fiat Chrysler become a
real going concern, successful company,
one that exists today. And Ferrari is a
great little engine to pay down debt.
>> Yeah. And not just a little engine like
the value unlock that happens at Ferrari
here to use investor speak is
unprecedented.
The company IPOs at a $9.8 billion
market cap in 2015. Within a few years
it's trading at you know what 90 billion
flirting with 100 billion market cap.
>> Yeah. As of a few years ago they hit 90
billion.
>> Yeah. Way way way higher than Stalantis
market cap. Yes. If you're the Annelli
family, this was a great financial
transaction for you.
>> It is interesting when you you often
hear investors talk about unlocking
value by spinning something off and
getting rid of the conglomerate discount
and isolating centers of value. That
totally happened here. Ferrari was not
appreciated by investors when it was
nestled inside of Fiat for the real gem
that it was. And as a publicly traded
company on its own reporting its own
financials, people piled in. sure
attracted a lot of investor demand and
still does.
>> Yep.
>> So, man, like so much about this story,
you can't script what happens next.
>> All is going according to plan. The Fiat
Empire has never been better. Fiat is
saved. Chrysler is saved. Value is
unlocked at Ferrari.
And then in 2018, just three years
later, just three years later, the same
year that Sergio had promised to Wall
Street that he would pay down all of the
debt at Via Chrysler, he dies
suddenly and unexpectedly.
>> This story, oh my god, again and again
and again, those closest to Enzo
himself, Ferrari the company, tragedy.
>> Tragedy. Sergio unexpectedly dies of
cardiac arrest following complications
from shoulder surgery. Nobody expected
that he was going to die.
>> No.
>> So once again, the whole empire is
thrown into chaos. It's in a much better
and more stable place than when Giani
died. But still within Ferrari, there
ends up being kind of a parade of CEOs
over the next couple years.
>> Caretaker CEOs.
>> Yes. culminating in 2021 when the
current CEO of Ferrari, Benedetto
Vignia, is hired. And he's a new choice
for the company, complete outsider, a
tech guy, a former, I believe physicist
or at least physics undergrad who ended
up going into semiconductors. And if my
memory serves, he holds the patent for
the accelerometer. Or at least one of
the patents for the accelerometer in the
original iPhone.
>> Yes. In the iPhone and you know,
basically all mobile phones today, the
accelerometers that are used there.
That's that's Benadetto,
>> a semiconductor guy, which actually
makes a lot of sense for the direction
that Ferrari and technology is heading.
>> Yep. So the question is what happens at
the company after the IPO? Well, on the
one hand, a lot of the things that you
would expect, Ferrari does increase
production. They go even further into
the luxury retail goods market. And in
particular on this luxury retail goods
market, it's interesting. They sort of
bifurcate the strategy. The first thing
they do is they they clean up all the
old crappy merchandising and they kind
of narrow it to this brand licensing in
very specific categories with very
specific partners. So Luxodica for
glasses, Mont Blanc for pens, Rashard
meal for watches, and Puma for shoes. So
there's this like sort of cohesive,
yeah, we're going to make stuff for the
Tosi, but like there's a luxury
associated with our brand that, you
know, we have to stay true to. Then they
go into a lifestyle category of their
own of first party products.
>> Yes,
>> David, what is this?
>> This is essentially Ferrari runway
fashion.
>> That's one pillar of it anyway. But
yeah, it's this acknowledgement of, hey,
there's a lot of people that want to
participate in the Ferrari brand who are
very affluent and they don't want to go
buy any of these things from our
partners. They want products from us
that aren't cars. And traditionally,
most of our customers, I don't know, 90%
are men and men in their 50s. I think
the average age is 52 of a Ferrari
buyer. I believe 35% of people who are
buying the lifestyle merchandise they're
creating are women. They're really
opening up the aperture of Ferrari
represents something and can we give
people more tokens to sort of adorn
themselves in Ferrari and not just cars?
>> Yep. It's an interesting strategy. I'm
not sure I would do it. I get why
they're doing it. I'm not sure I would
do it.
>> Yes. All that to say, certainly there
are initiatives that come about as a
result of Ferrari now being a public
company and needing to show predictable
growth and new avenues of growth to Wall
Street,
>> including theme parks.
>> Including theme parks. Yes.
>> They've opened two very different style
theme parks. one in Spain and one in Abu
Dhabi right next to the F1 racetrack
there. From what I can tell, it's going
well. I I think they're totally
outsourced to third party partners the
same way that you would treat a
licensing deal, but I'd like to go to
one at some point. Yeah, when I first
read that this is what they had done in
the last 10 years, I was a little bit of
a head scratcher. But I get it that
people want to experience the brand in a
more visceral way. These products are so
full of emotion and passion that merely
seeing one drive by you once every few
months on the street is not exactly the
way to to cultivate fandom. Yep. So
that's sort of one side of the ledger.
On the other hand, a lot less than you'd
expect actually changes. In fact,
Ferrari becomes even more independent.
You know, if you take as an axiom that
the most important part of the soul of
Ferrari is a Ferrari being a Ferrari and
not being a rebadged Fiat 500 or
Volkswagen Tore.
Ferrari today is even farther away from
Fiat than it was before the IPO. It
really kind of reestablished Ferrari as
its own separate entity.
>> Yeah. So today it's still 10% owned by
Pier Ferrari. A little over 20% is owned
by the Enelli family with their holding
company Exor. But that 20% was 90%
before the IPO and what 81% right after
the IPO. So they have really sold down
that stake over time. 68% of it is now
owned by public shareholders.
I mean that that is an independent
company. However, the voting shares are
a different story. So together, Exor and
Pierro have the right to vote about 49%
of the voting shares. So it doesn't take
much for them to control the vote on any
given decision as long as they vote
together. They just need to go sway one
or 2% of the public float to vote with
them as a block.
>> Yes, that's true. I think the really
interesting thing to look at is how the
Ferrari model range has evolved.
>> Yes.
>> In the years since the IPO.
>> Yes. Oh, I'm so glad you took it here.
So, Ferrari effectively makes four types
of cars that consumers can buy. 85% of
units shipped fall into what they call
the range. These cars are a few
hundred,000 each. of course before any
personalization or customization.
>> So this is the collection of sports cars
and GT Grand touring cars that have
always been the core of Ferrari.
>> Y
>> you've got your mid-enine V8s and V6s.
You've got your front engine V12s and
you've got your hybrids that have been a
relatively new addition.
>> Yep. This is your Amalfi, your Roma,
your Tesserosa, your 12 cylindry, these
sorts of models. So that's 85% and
actually sometimes it flexes up even
higher if they are not shipping a
supercar at the moment because the
supercar that we had talked about the
F40, the F-50, the Enzo, the Laaf
Ferrari, and now the F80, these are not
being made all the time. They just make
them for, I don't know, 24 months, once
a decade. Special occasions.
>> Yeah, shall we say? So at the end of the
Luca era, that was the product lineup.
It was the core range and the occasional
Halo supercar. That was it.
>> Now 10% are what they call the special
series. These will run you between
500,000 and a million again before
customization. David, what are these?
>> These are like the special versions of
the range cars, the high performance.
You know, if you take like BMW, you
know, you've got your regular BMWs and
then you've got your M series or
Mercedes, you've got the regular
Mercedes, then you've got the AMG people
would scoff at you for making that
comparison.
>> Part of me is dying by making this
analogy for Ferrari. But it's telling,
right, that this was added, this never
existed before and now there's, you
know, essentially the M series or the
AMG series of the Ferrari range.
>> Yeah. And they're a little more racy
than the typical models. They're not
track only. I mean, this isn't like the
XX program or the Ferrari Challenge or
any of these like cars that they make
for racing in very specific
competitions, but these are racier
versions, higherend versions in more
limited production of the range cars,
more or less.
>> Yep. And there's a lot of demand for
them.
>> Yes. And the way I just described that,
someone at Ferrari is very mad. Fans of
the brand are going to jump all over me
for all the nuance that I missed there.
But anyway, that's the special series.
Then the remainder are the Icona series.
That'll run you about $2.3 million for
the current one, this V12 Daytona SP3.
And of course, the supercar, which
depending on the year is only 1 to 5% of
the units that they ship, but it's
extremely important to their profits
given those supercars run three half
to$5 million. And and we'll come back to
just how important it is to their
profits. Yes. Yes. So, basically what
they've done is they've added a second
series to each aspect of the core lineup
before the IPO. They've kind of doubled
the model range.
>> The Icona exists for a very particular
reason, and I will explain that in a
minute when we get to financials.
>> Okay.
>> I think they kind of backed into it. The
stated reason is that they pay homage to
Ferraris from history. You know, the
Daytona was this very famous one
>> or the Monza, etc. But I'll hold my
tongue for now on exactly how they they
backed into it.
>> Great. I think I know where you're
going, but we'll save.
>> It is also worth noting clients who were
invited to the supercar or the Icona
class. These people own at least 10 new
Ferraris, maybe 20 plus Ferraris in a
garage. These people are tens of
millions of dollars deep into buying
Ferraris.
>> Yes, these are the Birkens and the
Kelly's. You don't just walk in off the
street and buy one. You need to buy a
lot of scarves, etc. before you get
invited to buy an Icona or a supercar.
>> Yes, I mentioned earlier that every car
that they make is unique as a part of
their manufacturing process. They do
take that to the most extreme. There are
models that are literally called oneoff.
>> Yes. So, they will make you and not just
like you change the seat color. They
will make you a custom car with a custom
body style for very very very special
VIP customers and they never disclose
them.
>> Yep. Okay. Ben, one model that you
didn't talk about is
the FUV.
>> Yes. And you are not speaking with a
lisp there. That is it is the Ferrari
utility vehicle.
>> The puros sangu the pureblooded.
>> Yes. So this is a delicious tidbit of
Ferrariism. The market really wants an
SUV. 60% of Porsches sold at this point
are SUVs. They're expensive and
beautiful soccer mom and soccer dad
cars. Yep.
>> And when you go up market from Porsche,
even to Lamborghini, which looks a lot
like Ferrari from a production volume
standpoint, they only make 11,000 cars a
year. Also,
>> and importantly is part of the VW
Volkswagen group along with Audi.
>> Yes. Astonishingly, over 60% of
Lamborghinis now sold are their SUV.
>> Yes.
>> I mean, the classic idea of like guy
driving a Lambo around the street, 60%
of that brand's cars are soccer mom and
soccer dad mobiles.
>> It's the exact same thing that happened
with Porsche. Porsche was the 911
company, and now they're the Cayenne and
Macan company.
>> If I ever get a distastefully large
amount of crypto winnings, I'm going to
go buy a Lambo, but it's going to be an
Urus. Just uh
>> Oh, no.
>> Just for the irony.
>> I hope in bright green.
>> Yes. Yes. Okay. So, people really want
one from Ferrari. So, what does Ferrari
do? They don't call it an SUV, they call
it an FUV. They debut a low top
four-door almost SUV called the Piro
Sangway. And as you mentioned, it
translates to pure blood or
thoroughbred. And it's almost as if
they're saying yes, this is still a
Ferrari. In fact, we're we're almost
even overcompensating with the name and
saying we really insist it is as
thoroughbred of a Ferrari as you could
possibly own by naming it that
>> and it has a naturally aspirated V12 as
its engine.
>> Yeah. I mean, it is it's a it's a real
Ferrari under the hood.
>> Yes.
>> The really disciplined thing that they
did though, they capped total production
at 20%. This ensures that when you see a
Ferrari on the road, it will stay your
classic idea of what a Ferrari is. It
really protects the brand and it
sacrifices a lot of short-term profits.
And I got to say, I have immense
reverence for the company for this sort
of discipline.
>> And it keeps this core pillar of Ferrari
that just seeing one should be a special
event. They are not going to go sell
60,000 piro Sangu. They're selling about
2500 to 3,000 of them per year globally.
You are not going to see one on the
streets tomorrow or the day after that
or the day after that.
>> Yes. I saw one this week, David, at an
event that we were at valet parked
outside and I thought, "Oh, I've
actually never seen one of those
before." Which is exactly how it should
be every time you see a Ferrari.
>> Yes.
>> So, the other thing about their model
range is they have become very diligent
about their weight list, too. They are
essentially sold out these days for the
next 2 years. Most car companies could
not tell you what their sales will look
like next quarter, but as of today,
Ferrari knows exactly what their sales
will be and to who through the end of
2027 at least, maybe into early 28. And
if you want one sooner, you're going to
have to buy a used one.
>> Yep. All right, Ben. So, how much do
these models cost? And what were you
teasing earlier with the uh the Icona
>> thoughts on the Icona series? Okay, so
the average selling price of a Ferrari
is about $500,000, up from $350,000
in 2022. Wow. So, they have taken price
a lot in the last few years. Now, the
models technically start at $280,000,
such as the Roma Spider, but A, that's
on a 2-year weight list, and B, that's
before you do any customization, and
customization adds anywhere from 20% to
100% of the price of the car. Even more
importantly in explaining that $500,000
number that is an average and averages
hide the most interesting data. You know
you have to pull it apart and look at
the distribution. So as we consider the
range the special series the Icona and
then finally the supercar
let's look at the distribution. Ferrari
is incredibly topheavy as a business and
I mean this in two ways. One is the
obvious way. The most engaged customers
obviously contribute an outsized amount
to Ferrari's revenues. If you're a guy
buying 20, you're a hugely hugely
important part of Ferrari's business.
But two, more interestingly, the most
expensive models provide a huge amount
of the profits for the entire company.
>> So, let's look at just the F80, their
current supercar. And by the way, all of
these were sold out before the car was
even announced to the public. Yes,
>> that is how sold out it is.
There are reasonable estimates that the
F80 average selling price is about $4
million. They're making $799.
So that is $3.2 billion of Ferraris just
in that car.
>> Wow. $3.2 billion of Ferraris in 799
examples.
>> Yes. Now that's retail. So let's assume
a 10% retail margin that goes to the
dealership. So, $2.9 billion of F80
revenue to Ferrari. Let's assume those
deliveries happen about over the course
of 2.5 years, which means that give or
take 1 and a4 billion of revenue in the
first 12 months is going to Ferrari from
that supercar. That's 15% of revenues
for the year, just from that one car
model. But that is not the whole story.
Ferrari has disclosed that the Icona and
the supercar models have higher margins
than the rest of the line. Of course
they do.
>> And I've seen lots of very credible
estimates. They're way higher. Like I've
seen 80% I've seen 90% gross margins for
the supercar.
>> Wow.
>> And this is intuitive. You can imagine
when Ferrari throws an extra $10,000 of
something nice in the supercar, they
mark it up a lot more since the buyers
are wildly price insensitive. So, I
think that it's not crazy to assume that
while that car will contribute 15% to
revenues in the first 12 months, it's
more like 30% of Ferrari's annual
profits just from that one supercar in
its first year. It could be even higher
than 30%.
>> Wow. Yeah. So, it's critically important
to the business.
>> The business is in the supercars.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean, this isn't quite true, but it is
funny to think about this framing. The
Ferraris you see driving around
occasionally, those are just peanuts for
their business. And it's really all
about the ones that are locked away in
the garages that you don't see that
actually make the money.
>> If you think about the F40 and where
Enzo was in his life and where the
company was when they released that, I
think they had no idea the business
model they unlocked with this limited
run supercar.
>> Yeah, that's totally true. And where I
imagine you were going with the Icona
series is like, boy, wouldn't it be nice
if we had a whole another series with
maybe not quite as good dynamics as
that, but like pretty good dynamics.
>> And gosh, it's a real shame we only have
supercars once a decade.
>> Wish we had something that was still
pretty expensive and still pretty
desirable and still close to as good of
margins to smooth out that pesky
seasonality,
>> those down years when we don't have the
supercars. Yeah, that's exactly right.
So, that is what you were looking at
with the Icona.
>> Yeah. Yeah, that makes sense to me.
>> The other thing that you should know,
listeners, when you're sort of thinking
about Ferrari, because we've said a lot
of model names here, and that is odd,
right? Most car companies have over the
course of 30 years, very few car models.
They've run them for a long time. When
we did our Rolex episode, you you heard
us talk about the Submariner from, I
don't know, 1965 and the Submariner from
today. one sort of continuous evolving
line that maybe your grandpa had and
your dad had one and you have one.
Ferrari is the exact opposite. Over the
next 5 years, they intend to launch four
new models per year on average. That's
20 new model names in the next four
years. And they discontinue models very
quickly after launching them. So every
four to 5 years or so. to really enforce
each one of these things is very unique,
very exclusive. Now, why doesn't
everyone do that? Well, most people have
to invest a huge amount upfront in
tooling. But Ferrari doesn't. They can
bespokely spin up a brand new car that
never existed because they can do their
own really nimble manufacturing process,
>> right? They have such a different
manufacturing process than any other
major or boutique auto manufacturer. And
this is the thing that the super
boutique hypercar companies like the
Paganis or the Koig Sigs etc.
>> But those are like way way I don't know
Pagani is probably 150th the
manufacturer of Ferrari or something
like that.
>> Well, right. And those companies don't
have all the tooling and manufacturing
prowess that Ferrari does. So they can
only make their models once a decade or
maybe not quite that long, but they
can't turn around and make new models
and keep the momentum going year after
year in the same way that Ferrari can.
Four new models every year. And the
really impressive thing about Ferrari is
the cars are just different enough where
they deserve different names, but a lot
of the R&D and the components are
carried over. When you look at the
internals from some of these cars to the
next generation that carry a different
name, that have a different body style,
they are different, but you can see the
manufacturing learnings. I don't want to
say they reuse components, but they're
they're heavily inspired by a lot of the
fixed cost work that was done before.
>> Yep. Very interesting. Okay. So, you
mentioned dealerships a minute ago and
their margin. How did dealerships work
in Ferrari?
>> Yeah. So in the past, dealerships worked
a lot more like the traditional model
where dealers would have clients and
they would get to allocate cars. Now the
allocation is done centrally by Ferrari.
And the dealerships really serve more as
distribution, operations, and service.
And I've been thinking about it less as
a dealer network and more as a
franchised service and delivery
infrastructure with Ferrari owning the
actual customer relationship. It's like
you get to own the the local franchise
in your city that takes care of this
stuff, but they're Ferrari customers.
They're not really your customers.
>> And Ferrari now centrally controls the
weight list.
>> Yes. Dealers do, however, play a huge
role in the secondary market. And
Ferrari knows it's in their interest to
have a thriving secondary market since
given how few new cars there are, the
entry- level Ferrari is really a used
Ferrari. And so, it's the way to sort of
cultivate the next generation of owners.
So they incentivize dealers to buy and
sell by giving them a 100% of the
economics on a secondary market
transaction rather than being involved
in that in any way. So dealers often
exist as a way to source used Ferraris
for buyers.
>> And the secondary market for Ferraris is
enormous. There's a crazy stat out
there. Over 90% of all Ferraris ever
made going all the way back to 1947 and
the 166 Baretta are still on the road.
That's right. Nobody scraps a Ferrari.
Like an ordinary car, it depreciates
down to zero because it will eventually
be scrapped.
>> Ferraris only go off the road if they're
involved in a terrible crash and, you
know, can't be restored. There have been
330,000 Ferraris ever made and almost
300,000 of them are drivable,
>> still on the road, still owned, still
operated. It's truly incredible.
>> It is incredible. Now, if you're
Ferrari, it would be nice to participate
in this whole secondary market somehow
in sort of a tertiary way.
>> Yeah. Tell us about Ferrari Classic K.
So, let's say you buy a used Ferrari or
you're getting yours ready for sale. It
sure would be nice if there was a
certificate from Ferrari saying that
they looked it over and they looked at
every part and it's genuine. Well, good
news. There's a program for you called
Ferrari Classic A. And for just $6 to
$10,000, you can get it looked over and
get just such a certificate.
>> Now, it's interesting here. Ferrari is
militant about what meets the bar for
Ferrari Classic K certification.
>> Yep. It has to all truly be original
with official Ferrari parts and
specifications.
Which also means, you know, a lot of
these cars have been out there for a
long time, things happen, right? Means
if you want to get it certified and you
want to have it be officially blessed by
Ferrari, you're going to have to pay
Ferrari or your local dealer to restore
it and return all the parts to official
Ferrari parts. And you really only ever
get it serviced at a Ferrari authorized
service center. I mean, you're not
getting your oil changes at your local
oil change place. If you're a Ferrari
owner, you definitely intend to sell it
at some point. Like either you're going
to trade it for another Ferrari, you're
going to sell it so you can buy another
one, you can add to your collection.
Even if you're going to die with it and
pass it on, you still want it to be this
appreciating asset or asset that holds
its value. So you are going to get it
maintained with meticulous records from
Ferrari and from Ferrari service
centers. So it's a nice little closed
ecosystem that they have created.
>> Yes indeed.
>> Okay. So why do they do all of this and
why do they launch four new models every
year and rapidly discontinue models and
have all these clubs and events and
track days and Classic K and a robustly
tracked secondary market and there's all
this infrastructure. Well, friend of the
show, Brian Lum from Bailey Gford had a
great insight on this. This is a great
mental model. If you're going to create
a brand that the whole world lusts after
durably, you need to create a lot of
infrastructure for fans to engage with
to sort of hang their Ferrari fandom on.
And so, you need to have ever more rare
models so that every member of the
Ferrari owners and future owners has a
place to go. In luxury, you never want a
customer to feel like they've done it
all. You want a place for them to
graduate to. Maybe that second Ferrari
or going from your first used Ferrari to
your first new Ferrari or getting
invited to buy an Icona or participate
in a race or buy the car that just came
out with that brand new name that honors
the model from 30 years ago. A lot of
brands who want to be like Ferrari don't
make the investments to have that amount
of infrastructure and models and
programs. The illusion is, oh well,
we'll just ship very few units and we'll
have simplicity. But in fact, the
opposite is true. You need to have all
this uniqueness and mobility for every
client to build a brand like this.
>> Yes. And this ultimately creates the
Ferrari pyramid.
>> Yes. There always needs to be a place
for you to sort of graduate up to in
your Ferrari fandom. And there's all
this stuff around it, too. There's like
a whole forest around the pyramid of
different events that you interact with
and community elements and it is just
very very impressive and very high cost
to just operate Ferrari day-to-day.
Whereas I think a lot of product
companies they make a product they ship
it and then yeah there's some servicing
but then there's maybe a lightweight
customer touch point but operating the
forest and pyramid and ecosystem that is
the Ferrari universe is like a highcost
everyday thing. Yep. And pyramid is such
a great analogy, right? Because if you
want to grow the pyramid, grow the
business. And you want to do so
sustainably or as sustainably as
possible as it is to grow a luxury
brand, you need to grow in all
dimensions. You need to grow the base.
You need to widen out the base and you
need to grow the height, the vertical.
So you need to be adding the Icona
series and the special series, etc.,
etc. If you also want to be expanding
out the base, everybody needs to have
their place in the pyramid.
>> That's right. And adding layers beneath.
I mean, you could argue the entire
tofosce, all absolutely 400 million
Ferrari sports fans are sort of the base
that you sort of enter and then graduate
up from. I mean, here here's an example
of the most absolutely insane top of
pyramid experience. The most extreme
clients can buy a former F1 car.
>> Yes. like an actual F1 car that was
raced in prior seasons.
>> I was wondering if you were going to
bring this up.
>> But of course, you can't just go drive
an F1 car and let's say you even store
it in your garage. What? How you going
to drive it out of your garage? So, what
they do is they store it for you in
Marinelo.
>> It's like a library wine.
>> And they staff it with an engineering
team and a set of mechanics and a whole
events team. And then they build
programs and say, "Hey, do you want to
come race at our private racetrack on
this day? Do you want to come race your
car? We'll get your team ready to drive
it around." And maybe if you want to
race it somewhere else, we'll fly the
whole team in the car there. So, you
just roll up and then you can drive your
F1 car around that special track. I
mean, the cost, the investment that I
think most people don't realize to staff
the full infrastructure is crazy.
>> It's astounding. And that has always
been the core of what Ferrari is and why
it is unique. Going all the way back to
1947 and Enzo, like we've been talking
about all episode, it is the combination
of three things under one roof. a
world-class racing team, a world-class
racing car and racing car heritage
construction company, and the suite of
services and people needed to operate
that available for hire to private
clients. No other car company has that.
>> Yep, that's exactly right. And most
traditional car companies actually can't
do stuff like this. Their scale prevents
them. So they can't have only limited
edition cars and they can't have a super
wide range that gets completely rebooted
every couple years. So they're missing
an important piece of the pyramid. It's
very easy to own all of the cars from a
big company cuz most big companies make
very few cars. The thing that makes you
successful at scale prevents you from
being able to execute Ferrari strategy.
Okay, so there is one car we have not
talked about yet before we catch up to
present day. Well, it doesn't exist yet
as of recording.
>> Well, it's true. It's true. We are six
weeks away from the unveil of the
Ferrari Luche.
>> Yes.
>> What is the Luch, David?
>> Ferrari's first electric vehicle
designed
in collaboration with Love from Johnny
IV and Mark Newsome in San Francisco.
>> And they unveiled this thing in a very
unique way for Ferrari. Clearly
targeting a different demographic. They
unveiled just the internals, like just
the buttons and dials and tactile feel
of everything and the steering wheel at
the top of the Transame pyramid in San
Francisco. They have not revealed the
outside of the car yet. Nope. They
wanted the tip of the spear of
excitement to be look at what Sir Johnny
IV would make with his hands in a
workshop 20 years after he designed the
iPhone. what would he do today with all
that learning and what would he do if it
were a Ferrari and it's the exact
opposite of the previous universe that
they lived in which is let's show the
body let's show the shape of the car
let's appeal to the motorheads let's
talk about the internal the the I mean
the engine what we are talking about
here is the buttons and the clickiness
of the buttons
>> I am so fascinated to watch what the
rest of this car will look like in 6
weeks when they unveil
Yeah, this was incredibly daring because
so many of the longtime Ferrari clients,
the hardcore collectors, the petrol
heads, the people who love the old
school small displacement V12s and
worship at the altar of Enzo.
This is anathema to them. Okay, so let's
do a bull bear analysis just on what the
luch could be. And I want to start with
is the job to be done by an electric
vehicle compatible in any way with why
people buy Ferraris?
>> So there's essentially zero interest in
electric supercars. I mean truly you
look around the industry. When Ferrari
and others started preparing for it 10
years ago, everyone sort of thought that
new internal combustion cars would be
banned soon, at least in Europe,
>> there were EU regulations saying that IC
cars would have to be phased out by
2030, 2035, you know, at some point in
time.
>> But Ferrari has put all this work into
building this car.
>> They built a whole new factory, the E
building.
>> That's right. And they're going to go
ahead with the launch. Lamborghini
actually cancelled theirs and has
switched it to a plug-in hybrid electric
vehicle instead. And I think the point I
keep kicking around is much like the
quartz crisis in the world of watches,
speed is no longer relevant. Yep. I
mean, the F80 goes 0 to 60 in 2.2
seconds. This is the supercar. This is
the 3 to5 million car. The Tesla Model S
Plaid does it in 1.99 seconds. So the
reason that people buy Ferraris, just
like watches, has shifted to be about
expressing yourself and having a unique
driving experience. In a sense, electric
cars are inongruent with the reason that
you buy a Ferrari unless Ferrari can do
something really cool and unique.
>> Yep. Yep. And that is clearly what
they're trying to do.
>> Yes. So the the bull cases, we haven't
seen this outside yet, but I mean the
internal components have been absolutely
awesome. I looked over at my wife and
you know I thought I just want to touch
every one of those tactile buttons and
dials and and play with it. Ferrari
could be expanding their audience here.
I don't think it's a layer in the
pyramid. I think it's a new pyramid.
It's like a whole different
>> they're going to appeal to a set of
people that would have no interest in
owning a traditional Ferrari. I mean
like me. I I I have no interest in
owning a traditional Ferrari.
>> But gosh, I was like, "Oh, could I ever
Well, would they ever take me as a
client?" But depending what this car
looks like, I could be very interested.
>> Yes. And I think that is the daring
element of it. They're creating
something that kind of by nature has to
exist in a parallel universe to their
core client base.
>> Yeah, they have always appealed to the
gear heads. I mean, the engineering
innovations have always appealed to a
set of people, but this is a whole
different universe of engineering.
Here's one that I think is really cool.
It's quad motor, one on each wheel, plus
additional motors on each wheel that
independently do steering and
suspension. And the effect that it has,
apparently, I haven't driven one, is
that it takes a super heavy
batterypowered car and it makes it feel
really lightweight and balanced.
>> And so there's all these almost like
illusions that they can do with
technology
to make the car just different than
every other electric car that you've
driven. And for Ferrari being a company
that stimulates emotion, that stimulates
passion, that provides a unique
experience, they may have figured out
how to do that in an electric car. And
we may look at all the other electric
cars and say, "Yeah, they're fast, but
gosh, they just don't they just don't
feel the way that this car feels." And
we'll have to see.
>> Yep. Yep. All right. Well, while we wait
here for the Luch to come out in 6 weeks
or so, give us Ferrari by the numbers
today.
>> All right. So last year they delivered
13,640
cars. As we mentioned, 330,000 cars have
ever been produced. Here's another way
to frame that stat that is my favorite.
This has been true all the way up until
this year. This quote, Porsche delivers
more cars each year than Ferrari has
ever.
So for all the hand ringing out there
about increased production, etc., etc.,
Ferrari still is in a class of its own.
>> Small batch. Last year, approximately
81% of new Ferraris were sold to
existing clients and 48% were purchased
by customers who already owned multiple
Ferraris,
>> adding to the collections.
>> Yes, you should have the picture by now.
Most Ferraris sit in garages because
they sit among many other Ferraris and
occasionally some are driven on
racetracks. So largely, this is going to
sound hilarious, but for a company that
is all about the driving experience,
Ferraris mostly are not driven.
>> Yes. Yes. There's a deep irony here.
>> I would bet they have the lowest hours
of use per car of any manufacturer in
the world who produces at least, I don't
know, draw a hard cut off, 5,000 cars a
year.
>> Yep.
>> Which makes for an interesting luxury
good because there is zero way to subtly
show off that you have a Ferrari. It's
either silent because you have one in
your garage and you're sitting there
thinking, "How can I bring up that I
have a Ferrari or if you show up in it,
it is really loud. It is I have a
Ferrari." There is no quiet luxury in
the universe of Ferrari. I actually
think there's more nuance to that than
it would appear on the surface. Okay?
>> And this is a good time to bring up a
couple points. The first is
car collector and Ferrari collector
culture. By and large, at least with the
current slash older generation,
car guys are very different than like,
you know, Hermes collectors or, you
know, LV fans or something like there's
a nerdiness.
>> There's a real nerdiness and there's a
real like community to it. Cars and
coffee meetups are like a real thing and
you just go to them and you connect with
other people there and they accept
anybody. It's a way for adult males to
make friends.
>> Yes. Yes. Yes. So, there sort of is this
other way to show off your Ferraris as
part of a community where you can
celebrate and appreciate them together
with the community. And it's very like
opening and welcoming this this culture.
If you're interested, even if you don't
own any of these cars or have the means
to, like it's okay. You're still welcome
in this community. It is different like
the watch world when someone says like,
"Oh, what watch are you wearing?"
There's a little bit more ick to it.
Like I ask people all the time because
after the Rolex episode, I'm just
infinitely fascinated by what's on your
wrist and I like hearing the stories and
but if you're not careful, it can sound
like how expensive is your watch and I
car culture doesn't feel like that in
the way that watch culture does or
luxury handbags.
>> It's paradoxical in that these are the
most expensive luxury objects out there.
like way way way more expensive than a
watch and way rarer
>> and way rarer
>> and yet it's somehow sort of less
exclusive at least in the community
aspect of it. So that's sort of one
point. The other point is that yes,
Ferraris are loud and yes, Ferraris are
designed to convey passion and an
experience of being maximally alive and
you know battling against death if you
so choose.
>> But they're not flashy or at least
traditionally they weren't flashy in the
same way as say a Lamborghini. If you
want to be a crypto bro, you buy a
Lamborghini.
>> Yeah. Well, Lamborghinis are the most
garish side of Ferrari minus the racing
heritage.
>> Yes. Yes, that's a good way to put it.
Yeah. It's not like certainly plenty of
Ferraris can be garish, but there is
like both a legitimate history and
culture that you're buying into, right?
>> And many of the models are actually
quite restraint at least in styling.
>> Okay. Relatively. Yes. The last point on
this is furry has taken price up a lot
in recent years. And so if you were, you
know, let's say you're a 70-year-old
dude and you have a couple of old
Ferraris that you collect and you like
bringing to shows, they weren't that
expensive
>> until recently. I mean, they were always
more expensive than other luxury cars.
They were definitely ultra luxury cars,
but if you just look at how much the
price has gone up in recent years, and
it stimulated the second market, too.
So, I was talking to someone who bought
a car in the mid '90s just from the sort
of bottom of the range and he was
lamenting the fact that he sold it 3
years ago, four years ago, and it's
doubled in price since then. That sort
of phenomena has happened all over the
Ferrer universe, which adds to the mild
ick of seeing one
>> that I don't think you used to
experience as much.
>> Mhm. Yep. It's a great point.
>> Okay, so back to the numbers. They did
$8.2 billion in revenue in 2025. In
terms of profits, they did 3.2 billion
in IBDA. So, they've got a 38.8%
EBIDA margin. Pretty good business.
>> Pretty good for a car company.
>> It's not a car company. That is the
answer here.
>> Of course.
>> So, how are they so profitable? This is
the exact comparison I was going to.
Well, let's look at their cost to make
each car versus how much they can sell
each car for. And we'll start by looking
at other car companies to kind of get a
sense of what their gross margins are.
Ford 7%.
>> That is 7% gross margin. Not IBIDA, not
net income, not cash flow margin. That
is their
>> gross margin when they create one unit
of a car.
>> A new F-150, you know, etc., etc.
>> Yeah. They make 7% before having to pay
their overhead and their R&D and their
GNA and
>> any of their fixed cost.
>> Yeah. GM 10%.
BMW
14%.
>> Wow.
>> Volkswagen 14%. MercedesBenz 16 to 22%.
Porsche.
Freaking Porsche 15 to 25%.
Toyota that same kind of range 18 to
21%. Toyota is exceptionally well-run.
Isn't that amazing that Toyota generates
on the order of three times as much
gross margin per car that rolls off the
line compared to Ford?
>> Yeah, that is incredible.
>> Ferrari is 50% gross margins. That is a
luxury brand.
>> And as you were pointing out earlier,
that's average.
>> Yes,
>> the supercars and the Icona cars are way
above 50% gross margins. I get the sense
the range is like 30ish% maybe 35% and
then the supercars are in the 80 to 90%
gross margin range.
>> So it is worth pointing out here this
average 50% gross margin you might say
oh it's a luxury brand which is the
assertion I'm making. They do have to
make a bunch of complex expensive giant
hunks of metal and safety and engineer
the absolute crap out of them and truly
innovate. So when you look at companies
that don't have to do that, LVMH is 66%
and Hermes is 71%. So I mean there
exists a category when you don't have to
do all of that hard engineering work
where you know it's a it's a good
business just selling handbags.
>> Yep. Yep. And this is where the
technology element of Ferrari comes in
that doesn't apply to many of the other
luxury companies.
>> Yep. But still, Ferrari is able to sell
their cars for twice what it costs them
to make. Whereas, if BMW spent a hundred
bucks to make a car, they only get to
sell it for $115. So, perhaps more
interesting though than all of this than
the gross profit percent is the gross
profit absolute dollars. The profit per
car average exceeded $170,000.
That is more than the entire retail
price of your average luxury sedan. And
even Porsche would need to sell six cars
to equal the profit dollars that come
from a single average Ferrari. Wow. That
is truly astonishing.
>> There's so many different ways to slice
this. It's fun.
>> God. I mean, what other company or
products can you think of that has a per
unit gross margin contribution of
$170,000?
>> Well, this gets into how we open the
episode that in terms of how people
spend money in life, it's housing, food,
and transportation. And if you are
selling them something in the
transportation category, like one of
their largest possible spends, and
you're selling them the most expensive
version of it, you've sort of spiked.
Like you you kind of have to it's like
real estate is the only other thing you
could really meaningfully start to
compare this to.
>> Yep.
>> All right. A little segment breakdown
time. They've got three segments that
they report. There's cars and spare
parts. That's 84% of their revenue. 11
12% though is sponsorship, commercial,
and brand.
>> The Formula 1 team.
>> Yeah, I was going to say the the
commercial and brand. This is sort of
where their their lifestyle stuff is,
the the fashion. But really the
interesting bit here is sponsorship.
Formula 1 for them is a profit
generating center that is also the
single best marketing dollars they could
ever spend.
>> Yes. Thank you Liberty Media and their
stewardship of Formula 1. Like overnight
in the last 10 years, Formula 1 went
from just a marketing spend for Ferrari
to the best marketing activity they do
and a real meaningful profit center.
>> Yep. I mean, the HP deal alone, the
title sponsor of the team is rumored to
be a hund00 million a year.
>> And the latest Forbes valuations of F1
teams, I think Ferrari, they have the
value of the team at 6.5 billion. Is
that right?
>> Sounds right.
>> Yeah,
>> sounds right. Yeah. They don't produce
the most profit, but they are the most
valuable team because they're Ferrari
and everyone pays a little extra premium
for Ferrari and everything,
>> right? So, you know, of the current
market cap, that's what, probably close
to 10% of the current market cap is just
the value of the team.
>> Oh, that's crazy. You're right.
>> Yep. And again, you can't really
extricate one from the other.
>> No, these are one thing.
>> Ferrari is Formula 1. Formula 1 is
Ferrari, but it's now a meaningful value
and profit driver.
>> Yep. Then lastly, 4 and a half% of their
revenue is financial services and some
other random stuff, including selling
engines to other Formula 1 teams. So,
this is the money that the Cadillac team
is paying to Ferrari to put an engine in
their car.
>> Yep.
>> All right. multiples. For anyone who is
not an investor, this is when you look
at the current business, how many years
of the current business would you have
to pay them to buy the whole company
from them? And there's a bunch of
different ways to slice it. We're going
to look at the price toearnings ratio or
PE. Ferrari trades at about 35 times
their earnings. And until the luxury
slump where LVMH and Hermes and all
these other companies got hit too in the
last couple years, it was trading around
50x for their last few years.
>> Now for reference, most automakers trade
at 8 to 10x and Hermes trades at 35 to
60x again big swing the last few years
and LVMH sort of around 25x. So
essentially the market agrees with
management that this is a luxury
company, not a car company. and one of
the very very best luxury companies. Not
just a luxury company, but an apex
luxury company like valued on a multiple
on par with the two very best luxury
brands in the entire world.
>> Yes. The implication here with a very
high price to earnings multiple is that
investors believe that the profit
streams are a lot more durable and
certain compared to traditional
automakers. Effectively, there's a high
degree of certainty that all these
profits will continue. The only other
option when you're looking at why is a
PE ratio so high is if you expect it's
going to grow,
>> right? But that is super duper not what
is happening here. I mean, that's like
when you would have a high PE multiple
for a startup that's growing 300%
year-over-year. Revenue growth is
actually experiencing a massive slowdown
at Ferrari. If there's a bare case at
all for Ferrari investors, which you
know, we've quite painted quite the
bullcase this whole episode, it's that
Ferrari has reached the edge of their
extreme pricing power and their ability
to sort of keep ratcheting that up at
the number of units that they're
selling. Management said in their
October 2025 investor day that the era
of double-digit revenue growth is over
and over the next five years, they
expect revenue to grow just 5% each
year.
>> Yep. which actually for the long term is
probably healthy for the company and the
brand. Like they've expanded the pyramid
so much in recent years that a period of
slower growth probably is the right
thing to do in terms of luxury strategy
management here. But yeah, the stock
really took a hit after that investor
day last fall. It's funny, it took a hit
and people still think Ferrari's
current revenue streams are so durable
that they're willing to pay the next 35
years worth of profits to buy the
business today. And that is after
getting crushed. I mean, the market cap
went from 90 billion to 55 billion and
investors probably got a little bit
excited about that 11% and 17% growth
rates and now they're hearing 5%. That's
sort of why you're seeing this
contraction, but a contraction to 35x
price to earnings.
>> Yep. Well, one more thing before we get
to analysis and powers and quintessence.
China.
>> Yes.
>> You mentioned it earlier, but uh what's
going on for Ferrari in China?
>> So, what's going on in the auto industry
in China? It's probably the place to
start. China's car market is being
completely upended by inexpensive
highquality electric cars
>> domestic EVs.
>> Yes. Domestically from BYD, Xiaomi and
others. This is having a huge impact on
brands that expanded into China in the
last decade like we talked a lot about
on our our Porsche episode. But China is
only 7% of Ferrari's sales, down from
10% at its peak. Now Porsche on the
other hand, China was 33% of their
deliveries a few years ago, which has
collapsed all the way to 15% and
continues to fall.
So the question then is, is Ferrari any
less desirable today in China than it
was 5 years ago? And does it fill a
different enough job to be done than the
domestic supercars for them to sort of
weather that storm?
>> Interesting. I don't know enough to say,
but I would suspect
it's probably about as healthy as you
can be.
>> Yeah, I think my answers on this are
there are domestic supercars in China.
They're still not Ferrari level in terms
of desiraability. Certainly not brand
heritage.
>> Yeah, they don't have the myth.
>> Unless there's a sentiment change where
people in China only want to buy
domestic supercars. I mean, that's sort
of a risk to them. But I think the thing
that you're buying, the signal you're
trying to send when you buy a Ferrari is
not really at risk. The job to be done
by an EV, I kind of keep coming back to
this is completely different than the
job to be done by owning a Ferrari.
>> Y that's it. I'm I'm glad we brought
this up again here because I think this
also is an important point of
perspective to add to the luch and why I
really think it is kind of bold and
daring and important that they're doing
it. It's easy for us sitting here in the
US to have a perspective of like h why
are they continuing this EV thing?
Clearly, they should just stay with
combustion engines.
>> I'm not. It's the only one I want to
buy.
>> Well, yes, a good point. Okay. Easy for
US-based uh collectors to and petrol
heads to, you know, maybe be upset about
this and not understand it. If you look,
you know, certainly at China, but also
in Europe where Chinese EVs are, you
know, invading everywhere. In America,
EVs are in a bit of a slump, but in much
of the rest of the world, Chinese EVs
are dominating y and like clearly
showing what the future should be. So,
is Ferrari going to say, "Yeah, we're
just going to abdicate all of that and
let the next supercar brands be built
around EVs and probably be built in
China." or are they gonna step up and
take their own swing?
>> Yeah, it's a swing. All right, should we
move into analysis?
>> Yes. And let's start with our
traditional segment, seven powers.
>> Yes.
>> Borrowed from Hamilton Helmer's great
book and framework of what power does a
company have? What are the things that
give it a durable, sustainable,
comparative profit advantage over its
nearest competitors? And the seven
powers are scale economies, network
economies, counterpositioning, switching
cost, branding, quartered resource, and
process power.
>> Yes.
>> What you got for Ferrari?
>> All right. Well, should we just start
with brand?
>> Well, it's funny. Okay, I'm glad you
started there because I think it's
actually an interesting discussion. Go
for it.
>> How much would you pay for a Ferrari
that was badged as a Ford?
Uh, well, there's probably a pretty good
data point on this, which is the Ford
GT.
>> Yes.
>> And I don't know what they sold it for,
MSRP, but I suspect it was less than a
Ferrari.
>> Yeah. I mean, this is so hard because a
Roma is not that much more expensive as
the highestend Corvette that you could
buy,
>> but an F80 is $5 million. And there are
not cars from normal car companies that
anywhere near approach that. So the the
question is kind of who is their direct
competitor? Their direct competitor
is probably Lamborghini.
>> Yeah, that's that's the closest. Yeah.
>> If you really want to go as apples to
apples as possible.
>> Yep.
>> So Lamborghini, as we mentioned, makes
about 11,000 cars a year compared to
Ferrari's 14,000.
Lamborghini has meaningfully increased
volume. If you look back at the Ferrari
IPO year, back then, the average selling
price was about even. It was about
$300,000,
whether you're buying a Lamborghini or a
Ferrari. Today, Ferrari's average
selling price, as we mentioned, is
500,000, whereas Lamborghini is about
340,000.
Mhm.
>> So Ferrari has really flexed their sort
of pricing power over Lamborghini,
especially as Lamborghini has made more
and more and more to kind of catch up to
their volume.
>> And 60% of Lamborghinis are Uruses SUVs.
>> Yes, there's that, too. But the point
that is useful for our powers exercise
here is how much more would you pay for
a Ferrari than a Lamborghini?
>> Well, it's right there in the data,
>> right? It's about a third more.
>> Yep. I was going to take the
counterpoint. On the one hand, yeah,
brand is of course the strongest power
that Ferrari has as with any luxury
company. On the other hand,
I think it's not quite as powerful in
terms of driving profit margins for
Ferrari as it is for say a LVMH or an
Hermes. Yeah.
>> Because
>> a Ferrari product, a Ferrari car
>> is really differentiated.
>> Still has to be a Ferrari.
>> Yes. Ferrari can't just stamp the
prancing horse on a car and call it a
Ferrari. A Ferrari has to elicit emotion
from you. Yes.
>> And it has to be cutting edge and it has
to be incredibly powerful. So it's sort
of like there's more cost that has to go
into it.
>> Yes. There's a phrase they use called
racing thrills and it's engineered over
decades to provide a very specific
racing thrill when you drive it which is
not something that you can throw another
badge on. So I think if you were asking
management, they would insist this is a
fruitless discussion because there is no
way to rebadge something and call it a
Ferrari. That's not it. It's
intellectually impossible.
>> It's total logical a Ferrari is a
Ferrari.
>> Yes. Yes. But in reality, when they
raise prices, people are willing to pay
those higher prices because there is a
shared myth that we all have, a belief
in what the brand represents and means
to us and the emotions that it gives us
by owning and driving it that are are
quantifiable and worth something.
>> Yep. Yep. How does this compare to how
you felt about watches at the end of the
Rolex episode?
>> Um, watches don't provide racing
emotions.
>> So, what matters because all the
performance is effectively identical at
the high end. What matters is who you
are saying that you are to the world
when you look down at your wrist.
>> Yes.
>> And when someone else sees your wrist.
>> A watch says something about you, but it
doesn't provide an experience for you.
>> That's correct. And there's this like
interesting perfect comparison here.
Porsche is Rolex.
>> Mhm.
>> I mean, they make an absolute crap ton
of them. Rolex is a million a year and
Porsche, I don't have the numbers in
front of me, but it's 30
>> 320,000 or so a year.
>> Exactly. and is an incredible brand.
Yes, just like Rolex is an incredible
brand.
>> And I see them driving around my
neighborhood all the time and I think
they are amazing polished pieces of
engineering and I respect them for the
engineering and the same way that I'm
wearing a Rolex Explorer on my wrist. I
could easily see buying a Porsche. It it
feels reasonably me. Could I see going
out and buying a PC Philippe?
Not really. The same way that I say not
really about Ferrari. If you're going to
make the analogy, the crude one that
Porsche is Rolex, I think you can make
the analogy that Ferrari is PC Philippe.
Y it's much smaller production. It's an
order of magnitude more expensive. The
big difference here being that Ferrari
is much sort of flashier than Pek is as
a brand and they also have the TFosce
which adds this whole different element
to it. So to directly answer your
question, I think branding shows up more
in luxury watches than it does in luxury
cars for the almost like the lack of
experiencable intrinsic product
characteristics that it's just hard to
experience the product in a watch, but
it's easy to experience the product
differences in a car.
>> Yep. Totally agree.
>> So you rely more on brand in in watches.
>> Yep. Okay, let's step through some of
these others because I think some of
them are quite interesting. Keeping with
the pot Ferrari comparison, I do think
Ferrari has this really interesting
sweet spot of scale economies that I
don't think we've ever seen before where
like they
>> they can do things Pagani can't, but
they can also do things that Toyota
can't.
>> Yes. Exactly. Exactly. They have power
because of their scale economies and
because they're like Goldilocks. They're
like just right. They're big enough but
not too big and they're small enough but
not too small.
>> Yes. If they were any bigger, they would
be sort of handcuffed by their overhead.
And if they were any smaller, then they
couldn't do some of the innovations that
they do and and design all the programs
they design and all that sort of thing.
>> Exactly.
>> There's absolutely a scale economy to
the community. I mean, the fact that
they have all these racing programs and
car meetups and factory tours, you need
to be a certain scale to to support all
of those operations.
>> Yep. I I totally agree with part of
being the the minimum. I thought you
were going to go to network economies.
Ferrari absolutely has network economies
100%. With the toosce and the community
and the nature of the community and
being so open and uh as you perfectly
put it, it's a way for older men to make
friends.
>> Yes.
>> Whether you're a member of the Tosi or a
Ferrarista, a big part of what you are
doing is making friends.
>> Yes. It's a network economies by having
a like robust rich community around your
product are almost this free
defensibility because there's just so
much more predisposition to want to buy
something with a Ferrari logo on it
because of the network economy you were
just describing, David.
>> Yeah. I mean, it's astonishing calling
back to our F1 episode. Ferrari is the
most popular F1 team in the world by a
large margin
>> and hasn't really won much since Michael
Schumacher.
>> Yeah. and sells the most expensive cars
that the vast vast vast majority of
their fans will never be able to buy.
>> Absolutely exclusionary.
>> I bet a lot of fans of the Mercedes
racing team, one way or another, can
find a way to buy a Mercedes. Almost
none of the fans of Ferrari can find a
way to buy a Ferrari.
>> All right, you just pulled forward my
quintessence, so I'm just going to do it
now.
>> Great.
>> Ferrari is both inclusive and exclusive.
It has the exclusivity of a luxury brand
but the inclusivity of a sports team.
>> Yeah, that's it.
>> I mean, it's this amazing marriage that
this is going to sound so self- serving,
but I was just sitting there nodding
reading their financials because this is
exactly acquired strategy. We are
unbelievably exclusive about the
companies that we are willing to do
these editorial deep dives on. We're
unbelievably exclusive about our
sponsors and yet we're as inclusive as
possible for the community.
>> It should be the best deal on the
internet. We want to make tickets cheap
whenever we have big live events. You
and I have always talked about it as
Costco in the front and Hermes in the
back. But really, we're just Ferrari
figured this out first. Yes. It's so
smart.
>> All right. Well, we're going to have to
change how we talk about acquired.
>> If you can marry a luxury brand with a
sports team, it is a business cheat
code.
>> Yes. Yes. I love it. Oh, that's such a
great quintessence. All right, back to
powers.
>> Ah, it feels anticlimactic to come back
to powers, but let's let's let's run
through it quickly. All right, so we did
scale economies, network economies,
branding, counterpositioning.
>> Did this even ever exist in the first
place? Cuz this almost never exists when
you're an incumbent, but trying to think
if they didn't if they used
counterpositioning in the takeoff phase.
>> Yeah, I don't really think so. I think
they were just doing something different
as we talked about by having the team,
the constructor, and the services all in
one house. Oh, they're counterpositioned
against the houses of brands today. They
can do stuff that Lamborghini can't do
because of the
>> the platform sharing.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh switching costs. There's there's no
switching cost.
>> In fact, I think most people who own
Ferraris own other cars and want to keep
adding other cars.
>> Yep. Cornered resource. Absolutely. They
have Enzo and the history and the myth
and the legend of Ferrari and that is
not going anywhere obviously. And
actually for a while their F1 team had
an advantage because they have their own
racetrack that no one else has.
>> I mean they have their own wind tunnel
and everything but like they also own a
>> a racetrack.
>> Yes.
>> Yes. Yes.
>> Do they have process power?
>> Process power. I don't think they have
any obvious or specific process power.
Sure. There's institutional knowledge in
the factories and they have their very
unique way of building cars that is
different than any other auto
manufacturer.
I don't think that's quite process
power. I think their power lies mostly
in the other categories.
>> Yeah, I agree. So the question kind of
becomes what is the primary reason why
imitators have failed to execute Ferrari
strategy as well as Ferrari? And the
most obvious is McLaren. They're trying
to basically do the same thing. There's
Lamborghini that we've talked about.
There's Aston Martin. It's a much
smaller production, but there's Bugatti.
I mean, why are there no other Ferraris?
>> I think I would posit that there are no
other Ferraris
because of the continuity. Even through
all the crazy ups and downs and the wild
story and the journey that we told on
this episode, Ferrari has always been
Ferrari. The core myth has always
remained intact and the products as up
and down as they have been over the
years more or less have always delivered
on what it is that you are buying when
you buy a Ferrari and that has been
unbroken all the way back to 1947. I
mean for God's sakes they're the only F1
team that has been continuously
operating for all of F1.
>> Yeah,
>> that's my answer.
>> I think that is largely correct. It is
interesting for all the people who
complain, oh, you know, that model was
crappy or this strategy was crap. It's
actually a pretty narrow window where
more or less they were still being
Ferrari, even if you have a particular
gripe.
>> Yep. And certainly if you compare it to
the ups and downs of any other car
company, it's quite continuous.
>> And my answer is different for each one
of these. I mean, for example,
Lamborghini, how do you build a company
like this without racing heritage to tie
it to? If you're going to build a luxury
brand, you need time and you need
heritage where you tie it to an
important emotional thing that people
lust for connection over. And in cars,
it's racing. I'm I'm sorry. It's just
it's the it's the obvious thing to tie
the emotion of your brand to. Aston
Martin has fallen down because they've
been terrible at running a business.
McLaren, various changes in ownership
and leadership and strategy. So
different for different reasons, but no
one has over what is it 80 years been
able to run the Ferrari playbook.
>> Yep. All right, quintessence. You
already gave yours, which I love. The
marriage of a luxury brand and a sports
team. What could be more
quintessentially acquired than the
marriage of a luxury brand and a sports
team? I think for me as I was thinking
about quintessence I I I sort of took
the question that you and I posed to
each other at the start of our research
journey here in Ferrari which is what
are you buying when you buy a Ferrari?
And for me it's two things that you're
buying. You're buying one passion.
There's undeniable purely
quintessentially Italian and Enzo and
Ferrari passion that goes into every one
of these cars from the range to the
Icona series certainly to the supercars
and I think probably even the puranguay
even the FUVs
>> certainly
>> it's funny David you know this but I
talked with the CEO Benadetto Vignia
yesterday and uh he told me we don't
sell a car we sell a dream
>> and I think That's an old legal line,
but yes,
>> it's true. It's true. You know, and
compare that to
>> other cars and it's just, you know, most
cars there's there's zero passion in
them. Uh, so one, I think it's passion,
and two, I really do think there's
something to the ability to feel
maximally alive in a Ferrari. And that
comes right back to Enzo and his story
and all the great tragedy and death that
was part of it. like buying a Ferrari,
you are buying a weapon that you can use
to, you know, fight against death and
scream into the void should you so
choose.
>> And the one thing I will add to that,
back on our Rolex episode, we threw out
the idea of a uh functional alibi, a
reason you could claim that you need
such a watch. For Ferrari, they have
lots of incredible alibis. Most people
do not experience the thing that you
just described, feeling maximally alive
and going right up to the edge. But that
is one of several
plausible alibis for why you can
convince yourself
>> that you are buying this thing. For for
me, it's it's the incredible
engineering. I think for some people
it's the racing heritage. I also think
their cool manufacturing and their
craftsmanship. These are all tremendous
assets that the brand has that are
extremely plausible alibis that you can
tell yourself why you are buying this.
>> Yeah, that's a great point.
>> Even if what you're really really doing
is social signal
>> or you have too much money and you truly
don't know what to do with it and this
seems fun. I mean that's
>> or you view it as an investment.
>> That's right.
>> Yeah. Well, that is a great place to
leave our story for today. We have a few
fun things here before we wrap up the
episode. I've got a couple uh bits of
trivia for you, David. I don't know if
you know them.
>> All right, I've got a couple.
>> Is one of yours the Lamborghini story?
>> Yes. Yes. All right, we got to tell the
actual Lamborghini story here.
>> Did you know so the way that this story
is out in the world, there is an issue
of thoroughbred and classic cars from
January of 1991. And it is a quote from
Fuio Lamborghini that is in this
printonly magazine. So this is the
origin of of the myth of the founding of
Lamborghini is in this magazine. I did
not find that. That's incredible. All
right. Well, do do you want to tell it?
>> You give your side of the story and then
I'll give the quote.
>> Okay. So, the legend out there about the
founding of Lamborghini is that Fuia
Lamborghini was a wealthy Italian
tractor magnet manufacturer. Yeah.
>> Who was dissatisfied with the clutch in
his Ferrari that he owned. And he went
to Enzo to complain about it. And
>> and here's the quote.
>> Great.
>> The problem with the clutch was never
cured. So I decided to talk to Enzo
Ferrari. I had to wait for him for a
very long time. Ferrari, your cars are
rubbish. I complained. Ilcommendator was
furious. Lamborghini, you may be able to
drive a tractor, but you will never be
able to handle a Ferrari proper. This
was the point where I finally decided to
make a perfect car.
Now, the reality is that was some uh an
intentional attempt at mythbuilding on
the part of Fuio. That never happened.
The real story is that one of his
tractor mechanics was repairing one of
Fuio's Ferraris and found that some of
the parts that were used in the Ferraris
were quite similar to the parts that
they used in the tractors and said to
Fuio like, "Hey,
>> we could try making cars, too. I bet we
can be at least as good as this Enzo
guy."
>> I don't know. Everyone involved in these
stories is long dead. Could be some of
column A and some of column B.
>> That's true. That's true. That is the
legend of the founding of Lamborghini.
>> Yes.
>> I love it.
>> All right. My second bit of trivia is
not a confirmed fact, but it's something
that I've been kind of thinking through.
I had seen numbers floating around out
there of the number of clients that
Ferrari knows the name of. They say in
their public reporting that they have
90,000 active owners and another 90,000
who currently own Ferraris but haven't
bought in the last 5 years. I don't
think these are estimates. If there's
only 180,000 rows that they need in a
CRM,
>> yeah, it's completely reasonable that
they know every owner of every Ferrari.
>> I think they have a giant spreadsheet
with names mapped to serial numbers and
who owns every single car. Yeah, that's
crazy to think about, but completely
reasonable
>> because think about it. What are the
ways in which they would not have your
information? If you bought it new,
they've got your information. If you
bought it used from a dealer, they've
got your information. If you bought it
in a private sale at auction, pretty
sure they can get your information. But
if not, you probably want to get one of
those $6 to $10,000 certificates here
pretty soon,
>> right? The Classic K. Yep. Exactly.
>> Which is going to involve contacting the
factory, getting your information,
>> you know, track days. There's like all
these community programs.
>> I think they know every single owner who
owns every single car.
>> I bet they do. I bet you're right.
>> Isn't that awesome?
>> Yeah. We'll have to ask him next time we
chat with them.
>> That's right.
>> All right. My uh second and last one. I
am so sure I'm going to get you with
this one. The 1949
Limal that Luigi Kennedy won started a
first major victory for Ferrari. example
of the business model, you know, private
client car, winning lemon, etc., etc.
There was another privatelyowned Ferrari
166 that was entered by another Ferrari
client in that very same race, the 1949
Leal. Do you know who that other client
was?
>> European or American?
>> European. French.
Is it a member of the Hermes family?
>> Good guess, but no, you're not going to
get it.
>> I don't know.
>> Pierre Louie Drifus of the
>> Oh, Julia Louie Drifus.
>> Yes. Yes. Of the famous Drifus family
and Julia Louie Drifus' grandfather,
Elaine from Seinfeld. Her grandfather
was one of the first Ferrari clients and
raced in Lemon.
>> Oh my god. Ferrari.
>> That is awesome.
>> So awesome. So awesome. Side note, I
think that is so crazy that she's like
of the Lou Drifus family and went on to
be a incredibly successful self-made
actress coming from a multi-billion
dollar European generational wealth. I
mean, it's just a
>> Yep. It's an incredible song.
>> It's just a crazy smash together of two
worlds.
>> Totally.
>> All right, carveouts.
>> All right, carveouts. Let's do it.
>> Go watch the movie Ford versus Ferrari.
It's enormously fun. I have a few random
shoutouts. Maison wheat sweaters. I'm
wearing one right now. I have a whole
closet full and they have been the most
pleasant. I can wear them to bed or to
dinner. I'm wearing them to recording.
They feel like the most flexible item
that I own and they're unbelievably
comfortable. So, I uh I can't recommend
Maison wheat sweaters enough.
>> Oh, nice. I'm in the market for some new
sweaters. I'll have to go check them
out.
>> Yeah, they're great. Uh Craig Hill
scissors.
>> Okay. Wow, this is a deep cut scissors.
>> Sometimes I get tricked by Instagram, as
my wife says, where I'm scrolling
through and then I find like the perfect
ad hitting me at the perfect moment for
some product I didn't even know I
needed. This pair of scissors, the ad is
great cuz it says, "How come your
scissors are like some flimsy sheet
metal?" And when you cut something
that's hard, sometimes the scissors
split sideways. And don't you hate that
when it doesn't actually cut and the
little screw is actually not positioned
in the place to give you maximum
leverage? We've just gotten so cheap in
how we make scissors. Don't you miss the
scissors from your grandma's house when
you were growing up from the 50s that
were like metal and like really solid?
Well, we have brought those back, but
with the highest manufacturing quality,
the best metals, this amazing grip, and
I'll tell you, oh, and this the the way
it slides when you when you squeeze them
together to cut something is so
unbelievably crisp, satisfying, smooth.
and I bought them thinking like we'll
see and they're expensive scissors. It's
like $50 scissors or something and they
show up and it is everything I could
have hoped for. It is the Ferrari. I'm
throwing away all my other scissors. I'm
only using Craig Hill scissors forever.
It's a fantastic product and uh after I
bought it, I actually found out the the
founders are acquired listeners. So,
thank you so much for uh making a
delightful product.
>> Amazing. Amazing. Wow. Okay. I I don't
think I could top that. That's That's
great. That's an alltime carve out right
there. All right. Mine uh Amazon grocery
service has completely transformed
groceries in my family. It launched in
San Francisco a couple months ago.
>> Oh, like at the end of your shopping
journey. You just randomly start
clicking and adding things to your cart.
>> Yes. People have been trying to crack
online grocery forever, including
Amazon. You know, a variety of different
ways. And I've tried them all.
>> We get Amazon Fresh every week.
>> Yeah. you know, Amazon Fresh or
Instacart or there's Good Eggs here in
San Francisco and like they all have
their pros and cons, but you know, at
the end of the day, like I mostly still
went to the grocery store. Amazon has
cracked it with Amazon grocery.
>> You just click and add stuff on whenever
you're ordering Amazon. I mean, there's
a parent of two small children. I'm
ordering from Amazon multiple times a
week and I'm just clicking and adding on
stuff for my daughter's lunches,
whatever we need. Milk, you just add it
on. There's no extra fees. There's no
nothing. It just comes within a couple
hours with your Amazon order. It's
amazing. It is. I I go to the grocery so
much less now over the last couple
months now that I can just click and add
stuff. It's life-changing. It's awesome.
>> Right. I have I have a funny story about
this. It just provides you like a little
grid of pictures, right? It's like a
little interstitial inserted before you
finally get to the checkout page and you
start tapping on the things that you
want to to show up at your doorstep. I
tapped the picture of a banana five
times because I was like, "Oh, I need
like five bananas." And I got five
bushels of bananas.
>> Bunches of bananas.
>> Good thing you have a toddler who, if
he's like any other toddler, you know, I
assume eats a lot of bananas.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> My second carveout is one that you
mentioned a couple episodes ago. Travel
pro had reached out and
>> sent you a bunch of, you know, great
Travel Pro luggage. I bought the luggage
first long before they sent it. And they
sent it because I got a lot more luggage
because we used it as a carveout.
>> Right. Well, they also asked if I wanted
some. I I said, "Sure." And they said,
"Hey, we want to, you know, also send
you this backpack." I'm like, "Okay." I
don't I love travel backpacks, but I
don't know that I need another one. I
love this backpack, the Travel Pro
altitude backpack. I've been using it a
ton. I did a solo trip with my two girls
while Jenny was away on a work trip for
a weekend at Legoland and I packed for
all of us in my backpack. It was
incredible. I love this thing, the
Travel Pro altitude backpack. I consider
myself a connoisseur of travel
backpacks. I've been through many in my
life and I've never found one so perfect
as this. So, thank you, Travel Pro.
>> There you have it. Well, a huge list of
thank yous that we want to give to all
the great folks who helped with this
episode. First to our partners this
season, JP Morgan Payments, trusted,
reliable payments infrastructure for
your business, no matter the scale. To
Verscell, the developer tools and cloud
infrastructure to build and scale fast,
secure applications on the web.
Verscell.com/acquired
to Service Now, the platform that puts
AI to work for people.
Serenow.com/acquired
to Statsig, bringing experimentation,
feature flags, and product analytics
into one unified system for product
teams. stats.com/acquired.
You can click the link in the show notes
to learn more. And as always, the
sources, books, and everything that we
did for research are linked in the show
notes. Yes. And speaking of, I owe just
a huge, huge thank you to Luca Delonte,
who authored the definitive biography of
Enzo Ferrari and was super generous,
spent many hours on Zoom with me talking
through the nuances of all this history.
We are incredibly appreciative of his
help. Second, most importantly to the
other Luca, Luca Deontealo, truly a
living legend who embodies Ferrari as
much as anybody alive today. Thank you
for taking time with us. to the also
legendary Dominico Dissle, the former
CEO of Gucci and business partner of Tom
Fords, who spent another good chunk of
time with me helping me really
understand the difference between French
and Italian luxury to Steven Wilmont who
covers European autos at the Wall Street
Journal and wrote a great piece breaking
down how the weightless work at Ferrari
that we'll link to in the show notes to
our friend Doug Demiro and to Chip
Connor who is one of the foremost most
Ferrari collectors in the world and gave
us great perspective on the Ferrari
collector community.
>> For me to Arvin Navaratnam at Worldly
Partners for his great great write up on
Ferrari linked in the show notes.
Worldly Partners, for those who don't
know, is a highly concentrated long-term
investment firm focused on multi-deade
compounding businesses. Very in line
with Acquired's ethos. You can learn
more at worldlypartners.com.
And he's got the Ferrari right up there.
to my good friend Matt Shob, Ferrari
enthusiast and former Ferrari owner. To
Brian Lum at Bailey Gford, really,
really thoughtful investor who helped me
think through all of Ferrari and really
woke me up to the idea of the pyramid of
infrastructure. So, thank you, Brian. to
Neil Conen, one of the OG folks at
Microsoft uh here in Seattle, who then
would have a second career actually
working for Ferrari. That's right.
Moving to Marinelo, experiencing it from
the inside, working on the F1 side of
the house uh on their technology, which
was really fun to get his perspective on
how the the company evolved over the
decades.
>> To Mike Miller, good friend of the show,
former editor at Wall Street Journal,
who really helped us research and
construct this episode. and to Benedetto
Vignia, the CEO of Ferrari today. Thanks
to Benadetto for taking some last minute
uh time yesterday to run through some
final questions I had before recording.
To Eddie Q, who is actually a Ferrari
board member and uh good friend of the
show, thank you for helping us
contextualize
>> in addition to all of his work at uh you
know,
>> Apple fruit company. Yes.
>> And lastly to Dupa for their models.
Much much easier than digging through
SEC filings. So thanks to Dalupa. If you
liked this episode, go check out our
episodes on Porsche, Rolex, Hermes, and
LVMH. You can join the email list at
acquired.fm/e.
That's where we will send our big
takeaways from each episode, past
episode corrections, exclusive
behind-the-scenes photos we found in the
research, and it's where you can vote on
future episode topics. Plus, we will
give a little hint each time about what
the next episode will be. David, I
thought your little uh Ferris Buer nod
last time was quite clever, so nice work
with that. A lot of people got it. I
thought that, man, this is going to be
really obscure, but uh
>> you're going to have to get more obscure
in your your hints going forward.
acquired.fm/e. And after you finish this
episode, come talk about it with the
other smart members of the acquired
community at acquire.fm/slack.
With that, listeners, we'll see you next
time.
>> We'll see you next time.
>> Who got the truth?
Is it you? Is it you? Is it you? Who got
the truth? Huh?